Full Judgment:

Take notes as you read a judgment using our 
Virtual Legal Assistant
 and get email alerts whenever a new judgment matches your query (
Query Alert Service
). Try out our 
Premium Member Services
 -- 
Sign up today
 and get free trial for one month.




Punjab-Haryana High Court


M/S Ram Murti & Sons & Anr vs Punjab Wakf Board & Ors on 28 May, 2010


RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                 1



      IN THE HIGH COURT OF PUNJAB AND HARYANA AT
                     CHANDIGARH



                             RSA No.2578 of 2002
                             Date of Decision: 28.05.2010



M/s Ram Murti & Sons & Anr.                          ..Appellants

                      Vs.

Punjab Wakf Board & Ors.                             ..Respondents




CORAM: HON'BLE MR.JUSTICE VINOD K.SHARMA



Present:   Mr.M.L.Sarin Sr.Advocate, Advocate,
           with Mr.Nitin Sarin, Advocate,
           for the appellants.

           Mr.S.K.Pipat Sr., Advocate,
           with Mr.Manoj Kumar,Advocate,
           for respondents No.1.

           Mr.K.S.Dadwal, Advocate,
           for respondnet No. 3.

                ---

      1.   Whether Reporters of Local Newspapers may
           be allowed to see the judgment?

      2.   To be referred to the Reporters or not?

      3.   Whether the judgment should be reported in
           Digest?


                       ---
 RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                 2



Vinod K.Sharma,J.



            This is defendants' regular second appeal against the judgment

and decree dated 16.4.2002 passed by the learned lower appellate court,

vide which the suit for possession filed by the plaintiff/respondent stands

decreed.



            The plaintiff Wakf Board filed a suit for possession on the

pleadings that the plaintiff was a body corporate and Mohammed Sadiqui

being Estate Officer/Principal Officer and being duly authorized to file and

verify the pleadings, was competent to file the present suit.


            The Wakf Board claimed to be owner in possession of the suit

property shown in the site plan, as also of superstructure constructed over

the suit property. Father of defendant No.2, Ram Murti son of Amin Chand

was a licensee in possession of the suit land measuring 450 square yards.

After the expiry of licence, defendant No.2 applied for lease of plot in the

name of M/s Ram Murti & Sons. The application was accepted and he was

given the property on lease w.e.f. 1.1.1978 at the rate of Rs.100/- (Rupees

one hundred only) per month Lessee constructed seven shops, and sublet the

major portion in unauthorized manner, to defendants No.3 to 9 without

permission from the Board. It was claimed that the defendants violated the

terms of the lease which resulted in termination of the lease.


            It was also the case set up by the plaintiff/respondent that

defendants No.1 and 2 were liable to vacate the premises, and hand over the

possession as they had no right to sublet. It was pleaded          that the

defendant/appellants have damaged the property whereby the value and

 RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                    3




utility of the leased property, has been diminished. It was also the case of

the plaintiff/respondent, that the claim of the appellant/defendants, that they

were lessee in terms of the lease dated 5.1.1980, was not sustainable, as the

lease deed was the outcome of fraud and foul play. The Board denied

having executed any lease deed in favour of defendants No.1 and 2.The

lease deed was said to be illegal and not binding on the plaintiff. The relief

claimed was for possession with a consequential relief of permanent

injunction, restraining defendants No. 3 to 9 from paying rent to defendants

No.1 and 2.



              Suit was contested by defendants No.1 and 2, wherein stand

was taken, that the suit was not filed by a competent person as Mohmmad

Sadiqui was not authorized to file or verify the pleadings. The ownership of

wakf board was admitted. It was the stand of the defendant/appellants, that

the construction was raised by the defendants, on the property leased out by

the Board, which was given on lease at the rate of Rs.200/- (Rupees two

hundred only) with a permission to raise construction. It was also the case

of the defendants that after raising construction, defendants No.1 and 2

sublet the shops constructed     by them. It was further      the case of the

defendants, that after permitting the defendants to raise construction, the

rent was increased from Rs.100/- (Rupees one hundred only) to Rs.200/-

(Rupees two hundred only), which was paid by the defendants till 1985.

The stand of the defendants was, that no permission was required to lease

out the shop constructed by the defendant/appellants, as at the time of

allowing the construction, permission to sublet was granted. Lease deed

 RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                  4




dated 5.1.1980 was claimed to be genuine document, sanctity of which

stood decided in the earlier proceedings. The officials of the Board had

deposed admitting lease, to have been issued by the Board, and the Board

was receiving the rent, under the said lease.



            Defendants No.3 to 9 were said to be tenants under defendants

No.1 and 2. Other material averments were also denied.


            Defendant No.4, filed a separate written statement admitting

the ownership of the plaintiff. Stand of defendant No.4 was that defendants

No.1 and 2 by misrepresenting their right to sublet, leased out the property

to him, though they had no such right. Defendant No.4 claimed to be the

tenant under the plaintiff Board and not under defendants No.1 and 2. Other

averments made in the plaint were denied.



            Defendants No.3, 5 to 9 were proceeded ex parte.



            In the replication, averments made in the written statement

were denied and those made in the plaint were reiterated.


            On the pleadings of the parties, learned trial court framed the

following issues:-



            1.       Whether the present suit has been filed through

                     competent person? OPP


            2.       Whether the defendants have committed breach of the

                     terms of the lease? OPP


            3.       Whether the defendants are liable to be evicted from the

                     premises on the grounds mentioned in the plaint? OPP


            4.       Whether the lease of the defendants has been terminated

 RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                    5




                   by the competent authority? If yes, its effect? OPP

            4-A    Whether the plaintiff is estopped from filing the present

                   suit as defendants No.1 and 2 were permitted to raise

                   construction over the suit property? OPD


            5.     Relief.





            In support of the case, the respondent Board examined Shakil

Ahmad as PW 1, Mohammad Iqbal Yunus as PW 2, Mohmmad Sadiqui as

PW 2/A and thereafter closed its evidence.



            The defendants/appellants, on the other hand, examined Rattan

Lal Ahmamad as DW 1, Ram Murti appeared as DW 2 and examined Anup

Abrol as DW 3. By way of documentary evidence, defendant/appellants

tendered judgment in the consolidated suits, titled as Anup Abrol Vs. Ram

Murti decided by Shri Mohinder Singh, Civil Judge (Senior Division) as

Ex.DX, & Ex.DY and the decree sheet as Ex.DZ.



            Learned trial court took issues No.1, 2, 3 and 4 together, and

on appreciation of evidence, decided issue No.1 in favour of the plaintiff.


            Issues No.2, 3 and 4 were decided against the plaintiff and in

favour of defendants No.1 and 2.



            On issue No.4-A, learned trial court held that it was proved,

that the plaintiff board, had allowed construction to be raised, and thereafter

received advance rent, therefore, held, that the Board, was estopped from

filing the present suit against defendants No.1 and 2.


            Learned trial court decided issues No.2, 3 and 4 referred to

 RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                    6




above for the reasons against the plaintiff by recording a finding that

Mohammad Iqbal Yunus while appearing as PW 2 proved, resolution and

notification showing that the Board was superseded. The Administrator

appointed was authorized as per the statute to direct the secretary to pursue

the suit. The learned trial court held that resolution proved, showed that the

Secretary of the Board was duly authorized to institute the suit.


            The learned trial court also held that notification Ex.PW 2/A

proved that the Estate Officer on being authorized by the Administrator was

competent to maintain the suit. The learned trial court held, that the suit was

filed by the competent person. The learned trial court also by referring to


Section 64 (2)
 of the Punjab Wakf Act. 1954 read with 
Section 15(2)(1)
 to

hold that all powers of the Board vested in the Administrator.


            Learned trial court, however, did not accept the contention of

the plaintiff Board raised against the letter dated 15.1.1980, for the reason

that PW 2 in cross examination admitted that the Board had been receiving

rent from defendants No.1 and 2, at the rate of Rs.200/- (Rupees two

hundred only), which was settled vide letter dated 15.1.1980.


            The learned trial court further held that vide letter Ex.DW 2/A

and lease deed Ex.D.1, defendants No.1 and 2 were given permission to

raise construction. Factum of raising construction over the suit property,

stood decided by the civil court in the judgment exhibited as DW 2/D. The

appeal against the said judgment and decree was also dismissed vide

judgment Ex.DW 2/2. Learned trial court, therefore, held that the lease deed

Ex.D.1 dated 17.1.1980, coupled with receipt Exs.D/2 to Ex.D/7 made it

 RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                   7




clear that the Board, had accorded implied consent for raising construction.

The Board had been receiving the rent up till 1.4.1985. The learned trial

court further held that thereafter remittence of Rs.9600/- (Rupees nine

thousand and six hundred only) by way of bank draft was also proved.


              Learned trial court did not accept the contention of the learned

counsel for plaintiff Board, that as per provisions of 
Section 36(2)(f)
 lease

for more than 3 years could not be executed nor did the court accept the plea

that the lease was outcome of fraud, for the reason, that the Board had been

accepting the enhanced rent from the defendant/appellants.


              The learned trial court held, that though under the provisions

of the Act,    lease for more than 3 years was not permissible, still the

evidence showed that the Board itself had impliedly given consent for

raising construction and had continuously received rent at the rate of

Rs.200/- (Rupees two hundred only). The learned court accepted the

version, that the construction was raised with the permission of the Board.

Learned trial court in view of the finding proceeded to hold that lease in

favour of defendant No.1, was to be taken as perpetual lease as the

defendants/appellants were allowed to raise construction.


 
To support this finding, reliance was placed on the judgment

of Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the case of Chevalier I.I.Iyyappan and

Anr. Vs. The Dharmodayam Co. Trichur AIR 1966 SC 1017; judgment of

Patna High Court in the case of 
Deep Chand Sao Vs. Smt. Kasturi Devi

and Ors.
 AIR 1975 Patna 17.


 RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                     8


               The learned trial court also did not accept the contention of the

learned counsel for the plaintiff/respondent, that the letter Ex.D.1 and

Ex.DW 2/A were not issued by the competent person, in view of the

conduct of the plaintiff Board, in accepting the enhanced rent for the last 10

years as mentioned in these letters.



               The stand of the defendant No.4, was not accepted for the

reason, that because of his claim, that he was lessee under the Board,

already stood adjudicated and the lease without handing over possession to

defendants No.1 & 2 in his favour by the Board was only a paper

transaction.



               The Board being dissatisfied, preferred an appeal against the

judgment and decree, passed by the learned trial court.


               The learned lower appellate court reversed the findings by

recording, that after coming into force of 
Punjab Wakf Act, 1995
, the lease

by the Board was to be governed by 
Section 56
 of the Act, which imposes

restriction on the Board to grant lease of wakf property, which reads as

under:-



               "(1) A lease or sub-lease for any period exceeding three years

               of any immovable property which is Wakf property shall,

               notwithstanding anything contained in the deed or instrument of

               wakf or in any other law for the time being in force, be void and

               of no effect.



               (2)    A lease or sub-lease for a period exceeding one year and

               not exceeding three years of any immovable property which is

 RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                 9




            wakf property shall, notwithstanding anything contained in the

            deed or instrument of wakf or in any other law for the time

            being in force, be void and of no effect unless it is made with

            the pervious sanction of the Board.



            (3)   The Board shall, in granting sanction for lease or sub-


            lease or renewal thereof under this section review the terms and

            conditions on which the lease or sub-lease is proposed to be

            granted or renewed and make its approval subject to the

            revision of such terms and conditions in such manner as it may

            direct."





            Learned lower appellate court, held that the lease or sub-lease

for any period exceeding three years of any immovable property of the wakf

was void, and could not result in creating perpetual lease. Learned lower

appellate court by referring to 
section 56
 of the 1995 Act, considered the

facts of the case, and held that the property was under the tenancy of Amin

Chand, as per lease deed Ex.PW2/B. The property was thereafter leased out

to Ram Murti for a period of 11 months vide rent note Ex.PW2/F. The

important terms of the lease were as under:



            "3.   That we will not sub-let the premises or transfer its

            tenancy rights to anyone else and will not create any joint

            partnership with anybody else in the said plot without prior

            permission of the Punjab Wakf Board.



            7.    That I undertake to keep the plot in good condition.

 RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                10


          12.   In the event of the rent is not paid within one month from

          the due date if falls due or any of the above provisions of this

          rent deed is infringed the rent deed shall be terminated and the

          Punjab Wakf Board in addition to or in the alternative to any

          other remedy that may be available to it at its discretion will

          have the right to resume the plot provided one month's notice

          shall be given by the Wakf Board to me.



                13.   That I will not alter or change the nature of the

          property and I will not effect any repairs etc. without the prior

          permission of the Board."





           Thereafter, vide letter dated 5.1.1980, Ex.DW2/A, defendants

No.1 and 2 were allowed to raise construction. Letter DW2/A reads as

under:-



          "Subject:          Proposal of construction of seven shops

          permission to sublet them by Sh. Ram Murti and sons of wakf

          land attached to masjid Kumharan, Jullundur held by him as an

          allottee on a monthly rent of Rs.100/-.





                Sh. Ram Murti is the allottee of one kanal of land on rent

          of Rs. 100/- p.m. He wants to construct seven shops on the

          premises under his tenancy as per site plan submitted by and to

          sublet these shops to sub-tenants. The approval of proposal is

          given on the following terms:

 RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                  11


            1.     That he will construct seven shops and stair-case at his

                   own cost out of money to be advanced by him for this

                   purpose on behalf of the Board not to be claimed from

                   the Punjab Wakf Board at any time.



            2.     That the new shops shall be property of the Board and he

                   will not claim ownership over it.



            3.     That he will be entitled to sublet the shops.


            4.     That he will enhance rent from Rs.100/- per month to

                   Rs.two hundred per month.



            A deed of agreement will be got executed and a Rent deed be

            sent to H.O. Ambala Cantt.



                                                   Sd/ Secretary

                                            Punjab Wakf Board, Ambala"





            After issuance of the letter by the Secretary, a lease deed was

executed, wherein the defendants/appellants agreed, that they will construct

seven shops and staircase, at their own expenses and will not claim any

damages from the Punjab Wakf Board, at the time of vacating the premises.

The important terms of the lease deed read as under:-


            "13. In the event of the rent is not paid within one month from

            the due date if falls due or any of the above provisions of this

            Rent Deed is infringed the Rent Deed shall stand determined

            and the Punjab Wakf Board in addition to or in the alternative

            to any other remedy that may be available to it at its discretion

 RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                  12




            will have the right to resume the land provided one month

            notice shall be given by the Wakf Board to me.


            14.    That I will not alter or change the nature of the property

            and I will not effect any alternations.



            15.    That I will not raise any construction on the back of the

            said shops without the prior permission of the Punjab Wakf

            Board and also will not give the said vacant/open site behind

            the said shops to any one else."





            Learned lower appellate court, thereafter, considered the

legality of the letter Ex.DW2/A dated 5.1.1980, issued by the Secretary of

the Board and held, that as per the resolution, the secretary could sanction

the lease of vacant plot for a period of not exceeding three years up to a

monthly lease of Rs. 50/- (Rupees fifty only) only. Learned lower appellate

court also held, that as per resolution Ex.PW2/A, the Secretary did not have

any power to allow the raising of construction over the Wakf property or to

enhance the rent, nor any such authority was available under the Act. The

learned lower appellate court, therefore, held that the act/lease being in

violation of provisions of the statute, was not legal, thus could not advance

the case of the defendants/appellants.



            Learned lower appellate court applied the principle, that there

can be no estoppel against statute, and that no allotment letter was issued

by the Wakf Board to validate this action.



            The learned lower appellate court proceeded to hold, that

 RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                      13




subsequent action of the board in accepting the rent could not legalise an

illegal action.



 
In support of this contention reliance was placed on the

judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of 
New Indian Insurance

Company Simla Vs. Kamla& Ors. JT
 2001 (4) SC 235.




 
Reliance was also placed on the judgment of Hon'ble Patna

High Court in the case of 
Sudhanshu Kanta Vs. Manindra Nath AIR1965

Patna
 144.




 
By placing reliance on the 
judgments 
referred to above
, learned

lower appellate court held, that the contracts which were void could not be

rectified by the concerned authorities.




             Learned lower appellate court also held, that on the principle

of estoppel, a void transaction could not be held to be valid. The learned

court also took note of the fact that, Secretary of the Board was

subsequently dismissed and case under the 
Prevention of Corruption Act
,

was registered against him.



             The learned lower appellate court             held that defendants/

appellants, also could not take benefit of 
section 196
 of the Indian Contract

Act to claim rectification of the acts of the Secretary.


             Learned lower appellate court placed reliance on 
section 227
,

of the Indian Contract Act to hold, that acts of the agent which are within

his authority are only binding on the principal and not other.


             Reliance was placed on 
Section 228
 of the Indian Contract Act

to hold, that if illegal part of transaction cannot be separated, then the whole

 RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                    14




transaction is not binding on the principal.



             The learned lower appellate court, therefore, held that as per the

rent note, the defendant/appellants, could not alter or change the nature of

property, nor affect the repairs without the permission of the Board. The

learned Court, therefore, held that the lease was rightly terminated, by

issuing notice under 
Section 106
 of the Transfer of Property Act.


             Learned lower appellate court did not accept the contention

raised by the defendants-appellants, that in view of the stand taken by the

plaintiff board in civil suit No.316 of 1982, decided on 8.12.1982, the letter

Ex.DW 2/A was to be held to be legal for the reasons that the validity of

letter Ex.DW2/A was not decided in the suit.



             The learned lower appellate court thereafter, proceeded to hold

that besides the shops allowed to be constructed, defendants/appellants had

also raised construction behind the shops and also on the first floor without

any permission from the Board. The learned lower appellate court referred

to Clause 15 of the rent deed Ex.D1 dated 17.1.1982, which reads as under:-


             "That I will not raise any construction on the back of the said

             shops without the prior permission of the Punjab Wakf Board

             and also will not give the said vacant/open site behind the said

             shops to any one else."





             The learned lower appellate court, held that additional

construction raised i.e. five rooms and a store at the back of the shop, was in

violation of the terms of lease.

 RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                  15


             Learned lower appellate court relied on      the provisions of


Section 111
 of the Transfer of Property Act to hold, that the lease of

property stood determined by the efflux of time allowed therein, as the

period of 11 months had expired and the tenancy came to an end, and

therefore, the accepting of rent could extend the lease only on month to

month basis.



             The learned lower appellate court held, that on the breach of

the terms of the lease agreement, the lease stood terminated as also by

service of notice.



             Learned lower appellate court reversed the findings of the

learned trial court, holding that with permission to raise construction, a

perpetual lease was created by holding this finding not to be based on facts

and circumstances of the case. Findings of the learned trial court on Issues

No.2, 3 and 4 and Issue No.4A, were reversed for the reasons stated above.


             The learned lower appellate court held, that as the construction

was not raised with the permission of the Punjab Wakf Board, therefore, the

Board was entitled to possession of plot, as leased out after removal of

Malba.



             Appeal was accordingly accepted and the suit for possession

was decreed by directing the respondeats No.1 and 2 to remove the malba

and superstructures over the disputed property, and hand over vacant

possession to the plaintiff.



             Defendants No.3 to 9 were also restrained from paying the rent

to defendants/appellants.

 RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                    16


             Mr. M.L. Sarin, learned Senior counsel appearing on behalf of

the appellants contended, that in this appeal,            following substantial

questions of law arise for consideration of this court.


             1.    Whether 
Section 56
 of the Punjab Wakf Act, 1995 could

                   have retrospective effect to determine the lease executed

                   in 1978?



             2.    Whether there was any violation of provisions by the

                   Secretary of the Board in granting sanction for

                   construction or in the alternative whether the acts of the

                   Secretary stood rectified by necessary implication as the

                   defendants were allowed to continue in his possession on

                   payment of enhanced rent?



             3.    Whether the suit could be decreed for possession by

                   removal of malba against the relief claimed.?



             4.    Whether the lease deed could be terminated with 15 days

                   notice in violation of provisions of 
section 106
 of the

                   Transfer of Property Act?





             In support of the substantial questions of law, learned senior

counsel for the appellants vehemently contended, that the learned lower

appellate court wrongly applied the provisions of 
Section 56
 of the 1995

Act, though it could not have retrospective operation, and could not affect

the lease executed in the year 1978, as disabling provisions in an Act can

apply prospectively and not retrospectively.

 RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                    17


            It was also the contention of the learned senior counsel, that

learned lower appellate court wrongly held the lease to be in violation of the

1995 Act as the lease deed was not for a period of three years, but was only

for 11 months, therefore, there was no violation of any provisions of the

Act, as lease for 22 months is permissible.



            It was also seriously contended by the learned senior counsel

for the appellants, that finding of the learned lower appellate court, that the

lease deed executed by the Secretary of the Board, vide which permission

was granted for raising construction was not void as it was proved that by

way of necessary implication Board had consented to it, as would be clear

from the facts that (i) the defendants/appellants were allowed to remain in

possession of the premises after the expiry of lease period on payment of

rent; (ii) the consent of the Board was also proved from the fact that in the

previous litigation, a specific stand was taken by the Board, admitting the

tenancy of the defendants/appellants, and (iii) that the permission was

granted by the Board to raise construction.



            There is force in the contentions raised by        learned senior

counsel for the appellants.



            The first and second substantial questions of law raised, are

therefore, answered in favour of the appellants/defendants and it is held,

that provisions of 
Section 56
 of the Punjab Wakf Act, 1995, were not

applicable to the lease executed in favour of the defendants/appellants nor

it was governed by 
Section 56
 of the Act, but by the terms of the lease deed

as 
Section 36
 of the 1954 Act was not enforced.

 RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                      18


             It is also held, that the lease deed in favour of the

defendants/appellants was not void, as after the execution of the lease deed

the defendants/appellants were allowed to raise construction and the Board

accepted the rent at the revised rate till 1985 i.e. after expiry of lease period.

There was thus, implied consent of the Board to the lease executed by the

secretary to the Board, the action of the secretary stood ratified.


             The plea of the defendants/appellants that the lease was to be

treated as perpetual lease, as held by the learned trial court, cannot be

accepted for the reason, that while granting permission for the construction,

it was made clear that the lease was for a period of 11 months. Furthermore,

that the defendants/appellants would not claim any damages, for the

construction and were to hand over vacant possession of the plot on the

termination of the lease, thus in view of agreed terms in the lease, it cannot

be said that lease was perpetual. This position was not disputed by the

learned counsel for the appellants.



             Learned senior counsel thereafter contended, that though the

lease was for a period of 11 months only, however, as the

defendants/appellants continued in possession of the property after the

expiry of lease, it was a case of holding over under 
Section 116
 of the

Transfer of Property Act, therefore,        could not be evicted except by

following the process of law. The contention of the learned senior counsel

was, that the tenant holding over after expiry of the original lease, is to be

governed by the terms of the lease, embodied in the original contract,

though it may be treated to be a monthly tenancy.

 RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                  19


 
In support of this contention reliance was placed on the

judgment of this court in the case of 
Dayal Chand Vs. The Union of India

& Ors.
 1970 RCR (Rent) 205, wherein this court was pleased to lay down

as under:-




             "4.   In our opinion, the decision of the trial Court as well as

             of the learned District Judge must stay-on a very short ground

             which will now be stated. It is common ground that the tenants

             did hold over. What is the effect of a tenant holding over, is

             now beyond the pale of controversy in view of the decision of

             the Fedral Court in Kai Khushroo Bezonjee Capadia Vs. Bai

             Jerbai Horjibhey Warden and another AIR (36) 1949 Fedral

             Court 124, Mukherjea,J. (as he then was)     who spoke for the

             majority of the Court, while dealing with the position of a

             tenant holding over, observed as follows:


                   "This argument, though plausible at first sight, does not

                   appear to me to be sound. It is perfectly right that the

                   tenancy which is created by the 'holding over' of a lessee

                   or under-lessee is new tenancy in law even though many

                   of the terms of the old lease might be continued in it, by

                   implication; and it cannot be disputed that to bring new

                   tenancy into existence, there must be a bilateral act.

                   What S 116 T P. Act contemplates is that on one side

                   there should be an offer of taking a renewed or fresh

                   demised evidenced by the lessee's or sub-lessee's

 RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                 20




               continuing in occupation of the property after his interest

               has ceased and on the other side there must be a definite

               assent to this continuance of possession by the landlord

               expressed by acceptance of rent or otherwise. It can

               scarcely be disputed that the assent of the landlord which

               is founded on acceptance of rent must be acceptance of

               rent as such and in clear recognition of the tenancy right

               asserted by the person who pays it."



 
It is, therefore, clear that after the expiry of the period fixed in

         the original leases, the original contract of tenancy came to an

         end and a new contract of tenancy came into being. Of course,

         by implication, the terms of lease embodied in the original

         contract would be deemed to be the terms of lease in the new

         contract. It has been held by two learned Judges of the Calcutta

         High Court in 
Lachminarain Bhareodan v Hoara Miller & Co

         I.L.R.
 1914 (41) Calcutta 35, and Bahadur Mull Chaudhuri v.

         Nagar Mull Madan Gopal, I L R. 1941 (1) Calcutta 451, that an

         arbitration clause in an old contract does not ipso facto become

         an arbitration clause in the new contract. Therefore, on the

         parity of reasoning it must be held that the arbitration clause,

         that is, clause 13 in the lease deed, does not become ipso facto a

         clause of the new contract of lease under 
section 116
 of the

         Transfer of Property Act."




         The contention of the learned senior counsel for the appellants

 RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                  21




was that in view of the law referred to above, the terms of the lease by way

of holding over is to be read as under:-



            "1.    That I will construct the shops from my own expenses

            and I will not claim any damages from the Wakf Board at the

            time of vacating the said premises.



            2.      That I will give the said shops on rent to other persons

            and the said tenants will be only my own tenants and they will

            not claim any tenancy rights from the Wakf Board.


            3.     That I shall pay Rs.200/- (Rupees Two hundred only) per

            month as rent from 1.10.1979 to the Punjab Wakf Board in

            advance in the first week of each month.



            4..    That a sum of Rs.400/- has accrued as arrears of rent

            which I undertake to pay to the Punjab Wakf Board, as under: -


            (a) Rs. on execution of the rent deed and there-after monthly

            instalment of Rs.200/- each along with the rent.


            4.     That I will not sublet the premises or transfer my tenancy

            rights to any one else and also will not create any partnership

            with anybody else without the permission of the Board with

            regard to the shops in question.



            5.     That I will not use the premises for any purpose which is

            Un-Islamic.



            6.     That I have taken the above plot for permanent

            construction for eleven months and that I will not change its

            purpose and whenever I vacate it, I shall deliver its possession

 RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                 22




         to the Punjab Wakf Board, through one month notice to the

         secretary.



         7.    That I will allow the officials of the Wakf Board to enter

         into the premises at all convenient times from the purposes of

         inspection and measurements.



         8.    That I undertake to keep the property in good condition.


         9.    That all the taxes which are payable by the Punjab Wakf

         Board in respect of this property/plot will be payable to the

         authorities concerned by me.



         10. That I will be responsible for the re-action and

         repercussions that may arise as a result of leasing, and the Wakf

         Board will not be liable to incur expenditure on this accounts.


         11.   In any case of any new laws, rules or directions which

         may in future be made by the Provincial or Central Government

         or under any emergency it may become necessary for the

         Punjab Wakf Board to get back this plot. It will be open to the

         Punjab Wakf Board to rescind the contract even before the

         expiry of the lease period and I will deliver its possession to the

         Punjab Wakf Board, after removing the said construction made

         thereon or handing over the same to the Punjab Wakf Board in

         the    same     condition      and    will    not    claim      any

         damages/compensation from the Wakf Board.



         12.    That I alone will be responsible for any action of the

         Government, Municipal Corporation, Semi-Government, Town-

 RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                   23




            Planning Department or Courts order which it may take against

            for the unplanned constructions of the shops made by me or for

            its use for inhygenic.



            13.   In the event of the Rent is not paid within one month

            from the due date if fails due or any of the above provisions of

            this Rent Deed is infringed the Rent Deed shall stand

            determined and the Punjab Wakf Board in addition to or in the

            alternative to any other remedy that may be available to it at its

            discretion will have the right to resume the land provided one

            months notice shall be give by the Wakf Board to me.


            14.   That I will not alter or change the nature of the property

            and I will not effect any alterations.



            15.   That I will not raise any construction on the back of the

            said shops without the prior permission of the Punjab Wakf

            Board and also will not give the said vacant/open site behind

            the said shops to any one else.



                   In witness whereof I have executed this Rent Deed this

            day of January, 1980."



            By referring to the terms, learned senior counsel for the

appellants contended, that the lease deed could only be terminated if any

new law, rules or directions were enforced for getting back the plot, and not

otherwise. The contention was, that there was no breach of terms of the

lease, which could entitle the Board to cancel the lease deed.


            The main contention was, that the notice issued was not in

 RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                    24




consonance with the terms of the lease deed and therefore, could not be said

to be a valid notice as the notice stipulated was of one month, whereas

admittedly notice of 15 days was given.



 
Section 106
 of the Transfer of Property Act reads as under:-


            "106.Duration of certain leases in absence of written

            contract or local usage.--



            (1)   In the absence of a contract or local law or usage to the

            contrary, a lease of immovable property for agricultural or

            manufacturing purposes shall be deemed to be a lease from year

            to year, terminable, on the part of either lessor or lessee, by six

            months' notice;and a lease of immovable property for any other

            purposes shall be deemed to be a lease from month to month,

            terminable, on the part of either lessor or lessee, by fifteen days'

            notice.



            (2)   Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for

            the time being in force, the period mentioned in sub-section (1)

            shall commence from the date of receipt of notice.

            (3)   A notice under sub-section (1) shall not be deemed to be

            invalid merely because the period mentioned therein falls short

            of the period specified under that sub-section, where a suit or

            proceeding is filed after the expiry of the period mentioned in

            that sub-section.



            (4)   Every notice under sub-section (1) must be in writing

            singed by or on behalf of the person giving it, and either be sent

 RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                      25




              by post to the party who is intended to be bound by it or be

              tendered or delivered personally to such party, or to one of his

              family or servants at his residence, or (if such tender or delivery

              is not practicable) affixed to a conspicuous part of the

              property."





              It was also the contention of the learned senior counsel for the

appellants that the suit filed by the plaintiff was for possession of the

property and therefore, decree for possession by removal of malba could not

be granted.



              In view of the contentions referred to above, it was prayed, that

the substantial questions of law Nos.3 and 4, be also decided in favour of

the defendants/appellants and against the plaintiff Board.


              Mr.S.K.Pipat, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the

respondent/Board, controverted the contentions raised by the learned senior

counsel for the appellants by contending, that the lease of the

defendants/appellants was validly terminated, for violating the terms of the

lease    as, besides the construction of 7 shops and stair, the

defendants/appellants also raised further construction at the back and on the

first floor, without permission of the Board, as held by the learned lower

appellate court.



              Learned senior counsel for the respondent also contended, that

though in the lease deed it was stipulated, that the lease could be terminated

with notice of one month, still it was not open to the defendants/appellants

 RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                   26




to question the validity of notice as no such plea was raised in the written

statement.



             It was the contention of the learned senior counsel for the

respondent Board , that notice under 
section 106
 of the Transfer of Property

Act was issued to the defendant/appellants on 4.12.1989. Reply to which

was sent on 14.12.1989. Suit was filed only on 17.5.1990 i.e. after expiry

of 30 days, to which written statement was filed on 2.4.1994. It was,

therefore, not open to the defendants/appellants to challenge the validity of

notice in view of 
Section 106 (3)
 of the Transfer of Property Act.


             Learned senior counsel for the respondent/Board contended,

that the Law Commission while recommending the amendment of 
Section

106
 of the Transfer of Property Act had proposed that the amendment would

apply to the pending cases also. The appeal being the continuation of the

suit would, therefore, be covered by the amended provisions of 
Section 106


of the Transfer of Property Act.



             In support of the contention, that objection regarding invalidity

and infirmity of notice under 
section 106
 of the Transfer of Property Act,

was required to be raised specifically, at the earliest and in absence thereof

it would be deemed to have been waived. 
In support, reliance was placed

on the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of 
Parwati Bai Vs.

Radhika
 2003 (1) RCR (Rent) 607.




             Learned senior counsel for the respondent also raised a

contention, that in the absence of plea, that the tenant was occupying the

premises as a tenant holding over, no notice under 
section 106
 of the

 RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                  27


Transfer of Property Act
       was necessary.     Learned counsel for the

respondent referred to the written statement where no such contention was

raised, rather the stand taken was, that it was a perpetual lease. This stand

was admitted to be not sustainable, even by the learned senior counsel

appearing on behalf of the defendants/appellants. 
In support of the

contention reliance was placed on the judgment of Hon'ble Andhra Pradesh

High Court in the case of 
A.G.Chandrasekhar Vs. Smt.Ramagiri

Mahalaxmi
 2004 (1) RCR (Rent) 236.




 
Learned senior counsel for the plaintiff/respondent also placed

reliance on the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of 
Jaswant

Raj Soni Vs. Prakash Mal
 2005 (8) SCC 38, in support of the contention,

that where under the agreement it was provided that one month's notice was

necessary to quit, and the notice fell short of one month, but the eviction

petition is filed on expiry of one month it would meet the requirement of

notice.




 
Reliance was also placed on the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme

Court in the case of M/s 
Nopany Investments (P) Ltd. Vs. Santokh Singh

(HUF
) 2008 (1) RCR (Rent) 6, wherein it was held, that if suit for

eviction is filed under general law no notice to quit was necessary under


section 106
 of the Transfer of Property Act as filing of the eviction suit

under general law, itself was a notice to quit.




 
In view of the submission 
referred to above
, learned counsel for

the plaintiff/respondent, contended, that substantial questions of law No.3

and 4 be decided against the defendants/appellants and in favour of the

 RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                     28




plaintiff/respondent.




            On consideration of matter, I find force in the contention raised

by the learned senior counsel for the respondent/Board.


            It is well settled law, that it is always open to the courts to grant

lesser relief than claimed, in the facts and circumstances of the case. The

decree of the learned lower appellate court, cannot be said to be bad merely

because in a suit for possession along with superstructure, the learned

lower appellate court had decreed the suit for possession by directing the

defendants/appellants to hand over possession of the plot leased out, after

removing the malba which belonged to the defendants/appellants.


            Notice of termination of the lease, also cannot be said to be bad

in law as by raising additional construction over and above 7 shops and stair

qua which permission was given, the defendants-appellants violated the

specific terms of the lease deed. Furthermore, as per the amended law, the

defendants/appellants could not be allowed to continue even though the

amended law was not retrospective in operation, but by way of specific

term, the defendants/appellants had agreed to abide by any change in law.


            In view of the judgments, relied upon by the learned senior

counsel for the plaintiff/respondent, the notice cannot be said to be invalid

so as to hold that the lease deed continued to subsist. The owner under the

general law is competent to seek eviction of the lessee by issuing notice of

termination of the lease which, in fact, has been done in the case in hand.


            Substantial question of law Nos.3 and 4 are, answered in

favour   of the plaintiff/respondent and against the defendants/appellants.

 RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                29


             In view of the findings 
referred to above
, judgment and decree

passed by the learned lower appellate court is upheld though for different

reasons as given above, and the regular second appeal is dismissed, but

with no order as to costs.



                                              (Vinod K.Sharma)
28.05.2010                                         Judge
rp

Metadata:

Tag: h2, Class: docsource_main, ID: , Content: Punjab-Haryana High Court
Tag: h2, Class: doc_title, ID: , Content: M/S Ram Murti & Sons & Anr vs Punjab Wakf Board & Ors on 28 May, 2010
Tag: p, Class: , ID: , Content: Take notes as you read a judgment using ourVirtual Legal Assistantand get email alerts whenever a new judgment matches your query (Query Alert Service). Try out ourPremium Member Services--Sign up todayand get free trial for one month.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_1, Content: This is defendants' regular second appeal against the judgment

and decree dated 16.4.2002 passed by the learned lower appellate court,

vide which the suit for possession filed by the plaintiff/respondent stands

decreed.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_2, Content: The plaintiff Wakf Board filed a suit for possession on the

pleadings that the plaintiff was a body corporate and Mohammed Sadiqui

being Estate Officer/Principal Officer and being duly authorized to file and

verify the pleadings, was competent to file the present suit.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_3, Content: The Wakf Board claimed to be owner in possession of the suit

property shown in the site plan, as also of superstructure constructed over

the suit property. Father of defendant No.2, Ram Murti son of Amin Chand

was a licensee in possession of the suit land measuring 450 square yards.

After the expiry of licence, defendant No.2 applied for lease of plot in the

name of M/s Ram Murti & Sons. The application was accepted and he was

given the property on lease w.e.f. 1.1.1978 at the rate of Rs.100/- (Rupees

one hundred only) per month Lessee constructed seven shops, and sublet the

major portion in unauthorized manner, to defendants No.3 to 9 without

permission from the Board. It was claimed that the defendants violated the

terms of the lease which resulted in termination of the lease.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_4, Content: It was also the case set up by the plaintiff/respondent that

defendants No.1 and 2 were liable to vacate the premises, and hand over the

possession as they had no right to sublet. It was pleaded          that the

defendant/appellants have damaged the property whereby the value andRSA No.2578 of 2002                                                    3utility of the leased property, has been diminished. It was also the case of

the plaintiff/respondent, that the claim of the appellant/defendants, that they

were lessee in terms of the lease dated 5.1.1980, was not sustainable, as the

lease deed was the outcome of fraud and foul play. The Board denied

having executed any lease deed in favour of defendants No.1 and 2.The

lease deed was said to be illegal and not binding on the plaintiff. The relief

claimed was for possession with a consequential relief of permanent

injunction, restraining defendants No. 3 to 9 from paying rent to defendants

No.1 and 2.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_5, Content: Suit was contested by defendants No.1 and 2, wherein stand

was taken, that the suit was not filed by a competent person as Mohmmad

Sadiqui was not authorized to file or verify the pleadings. The ownership of

wakf board was admitted. It was the stand of the defendant/appellants, that

the construction was raised by the defendants, on the property leased out by

the Board, which was given on lease at the rate of Rs.200/- (Rupees two

hundred only) with a permission to raise construction. It was also the case

of the defendants that after raising construction, defendants No.1 and 2

sublet the shops constructed     by them. It was further      the case of the

defendants, that after permitting the defendants to raise construction, the

rent was increased from Rs.100/- (Rupees one hundred only) to Rs.200/-

(Rupees two hundred only), which was paid by the defendants till 1985.

The stand of the defendants was, that no permission was required to lease

out the shop constructed by the defendant/appellants, as at the time of

allowing the construction, permission to sublet was granted. Lease deedRSA No.2578 of 2002                                                  4dated 5.1.1980 was claimed to be genuine document, sanctity of which

stood decided in the earlier proceedings. The officials of the Board had

deposed admitting lease, to have been issued by the Board, and the Board

was receiving the rent, under the said lease.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_6, Content: Defendants No.3 to 9 were said to be tenants under defendants

No.1 and 2. Other material averments were also denied.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_7, Content: Defendant No.4, filed a separate written statement admitting

the ownership of the plaintiff. Stand of defendant No.4 was that defendants

No.1 and 2 by misrepresenting their right to sublet, leased out the property

to him, though they had no such right. Defendant No.4 claimed to be the

tenant under the plaintiff Board and not under defendants No.1 and 2. Other

averments made in the plaint were denied.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_8, Content: Defendants No.3, 5 to 9 were proceeded ex parte.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_9, Content: In the replication, averments made in the written statement

were denied and those made in the plaint were reiterated.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_10, Content: On the pleadings of the parties, learned trial court framed the

following issues:-
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_11, Content: In support of the case, the respondent Board examined Shakil

Ahmad as PW 1, Mohammad Iqbal Yunus as PW 2, Mohmmad Sadiqui as

PW 2/A and thereafter closed its evidence.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_12, Content: The defendants/appellants, on the other hand, examined Rattan

Lal Ahmamad as DW 1, Ram Murti appeared as DW 2 and examined Anup

Abrol as DW 3. By way of documentary evidence, defendant/appellants

tendered judgment in the consolidated suits, titled as Anup Abrol Vs. Ram

Murti decided by Shri Mohinder Singh, Civil Judge (Senior Division) as

Ex.DX, & Ex.DY and the decree sheet as Ex.DZ.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_13, Content: Learned trial court took issues No.1, 2, 3 and 4 together, and

on appreciation of evidence, decided issue No.1 in favour of the plaintiff.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_14, Content: Issues No.2, 3 and 4 were decided against the plaintiff and in

favour of defendants No.1 and 2.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_15, Content: On issue No.4-A, learned trial court held that it was proved,

that the plaintiff board, had allowed construction to be raised, and thereafter

received advance rent, therefore, held, that the Board, was estopped from

filing the present suit against defendants No.1 and 2.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_16, Content: Learned trial court decided issues No.2, 3 and 4 referred toRSA No.2578 of 2002                                                    6above for the reasons against the plaintiff by recording a finding that

Mohammad Iqbal Yunus while appearing as PW 2 proved, resolution and

notification showing that the Board was superseded. The Administrator

appointed was authorized as per the statute to direct the secretary to pursue

the suit. The learned trial court held that resolution proved, showed that the

Secretary of the Board was duly authorized to institute the suit.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_17, Content: The learned trial court also held that notification Ex.PW 2/A

proved that the Estate Officer on being authorized by the Administrator was

competent to maintain the suit. The learned trial court held, that the suit was

filed by the competent person. The learned trial court also by referring toSection 64 (2)of the Punjab Wakf Act. 1954 read withSection 15(2)(1)to

hold that all powers of the Board vested in the Administrator.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_18, Content: Learned trial court, however, did not accept the contention of

the plaintiff Board raised against the letter dated 15.1.1980, for the reason

that PW 2 in cross examination admitted that the Board had been receiving

rent from defendants No.1 and 2, at the rate of Rs.200/- (Rupees two

hundred only), which was settled vide letter dated 15.1.1980.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_19, Content: The learned trial court further held that vide letter Ex.DW 2/A

and lease deed Ex.D.1, defendants No.1 and 2 were given permission to

raise construction. Factum of raising construction over the suit property,

stood decided by the civil court in the judgment exhibited as DW 2/D. The

appeal against the said judgment and decree was also dismissed vide

judgment Ex.DW 2/2. Learned trial court, therefore, held that the lease deed

Ex.D.1 dated 17.1.1980, coupled with receipt Exs.D/2 to Ex.D/7 made itRSA No.2578 of 2002                                                   7clear that the Board, had accorded implied consent for raising construction.

The Board had been receiving the rent up till 1.4.1985. The learned trial

court further held that thereafter remittence of Rs.9600/- (Rupees nine

thousand and six hundred only) by way of bank draft was also proved.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_20, Content: Learned trial court did not accept the contention of the learned

counsel for plaintiff Board, that as per provisions ofSection 36(2)(f)lease

for more than 3 years could not be executed nor did the court accept the plea

that the lease was outcome of fraud, for the reason, that the Board had been

accepting the enhanced rent from the defendant/appellants.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_21, Content: The learned trial court held, that though under the provisions

of the Act,    lease for more than 3 years was not permissible, still the

evidence showed that the Board itself had impliedly given consent for

raising construction and had continuously received rent at the rate of

Rs.200/- (Rupees two hundred only). The learned court accepted the

version, that the construction was raised with the permission of the Board.

Learned trial court in view of the finding proceeded to hold that lease in

favour of defendant No.1, was to be taken as perpetual lease as the

defendants/appellants were allowed to raise construction.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_22, Content: To support this finding, reliance was placed on the judgment

of Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the case of Chevalier I.I.Iyyappan and

Anr. Vs. The Dharmodayam Co. Trichur AIR 1966 SC 1017; judgment of

Patna High Court in the case ofDeep Chand Sao Vs. Smt. Kasturi Devi

and Ors.AIR 1975 Patna 17.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_23, Content: 
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_24, Content: The learned trial court also did not accept the contention of the

learned counsel for the plaintiff/respondent, that the letter Ex.D.1 and

Ex.DW 2/A were not issued by the competent person, in view of the

conduct of the plaintiff Board, in accepting the enhanced rent for the last 10

years as mentioned in these letters.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_25, Content: The stand of the defendant No.4, was not accepted for the

reason, that because of his claim, that he was lessee under the Board,

already stood adjudicated and the lease without handing over possession to

defendants No.1 & 2 in his favour by the Board was only a paper

transaction.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_26, Content: The Board being dissatisfied, preferred an appeal against the

judgment and decree, passed by the learned trial court.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_27, Content: The learned lower appellate court reversed the findings by

recording, that after coming into force ofPunjab Wakf Act, 1995, the lease

by the Board was to be governed bySection 56of the Act, which imposes

restriction on the Board to grant lease of wakf property, which reads as

under:-
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_28, Content: lease or renewal thereof under this section review the terms and

            conditions on which the lease or sub-lease is proposed to be

            granted or renewed and make its approval subject to the

            revision of such terms and conditions in such manner as it may

            direct."
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_29, Content: Learned lower appellate court, held that the lease or sub-lease

for any period exceeding three years of any immovable property of the wakf

was void, and could not result in creating perpetual lease. Learned lower

appellate court by referring tosection 56of the 1995 Act, considered the

facts of the case, and held that the property was under the tenancy of Amin

Chand, as per lease deed Ex.PW2/B. The property was thereafter leased out

to Ram Murti for a period of 11 months vide rent note Ex.PW2/F. The

important terms of the lease were as under:
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_30, Content: Thereafter, vide letter dated 5.1.1980, Ex.DW2/A, defendants

No.1 and 2 were allowed to raise construction. Letter DW2/A reads as

under:-
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_31, Content: A deed of agreement will be got executed and a Rent deed be

            sent to H.O. Ambala Cantt.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_32, Content: Sd/ Secretary

                                            Punjab Wakf Board, Ambala"
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_33, Content: 
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_34, Content: Learned lower appellate court, thereafter, considered the

legality of the letter Ex.DW2/A dated 5.1.1980, issued by the Secretary of

the Board and held, that as per the resolution, the secretary could sanction

the lease of vacant plot for a period of not exceeding three years up to a

monthly lease of Rs. 50/- (Rupees fifty only) only. Learned lower appellate

court also held, that as per resolution Ex.PW2/A, the Secretary did not have

any power to allow the raising of construction over the Wakf property or to

enhance the rent, nor any such authority was available under the Act. The

learned lower appellate court, therefore, held that the act/lease being in

violation of provisions of the statute, was not legal, thus could not advance

the case of the defendants/appellants.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_35, Content: Learned lower appellate court applied the principle, that there

can be no estoppel against statute, and that no allotment letter was issued

by the Wakf Board to validate this action.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_36, Content: The learned lower appellate court proceeded to hold, thatRSA No.2578 of 2002                                                      13subsequent action of the board in accepting the rent could not legalise an

illegal action.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_37, Content: In support of this contention reliance was placed on the

judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case ofNew Indian Insurance

Company Simla Vs. Kamla& Ors. JT2001 (4) SC 235.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_38, Content: Reliance was also placed on the judgment of Hon'ble Patna

High Court in the case ofSudhanshu Kanta Vs. Manindra Nath AIR1965

Patna144.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_39, Content: By placing reliance on thejudgmentsreferred to above, learned

lower appellate court held, that the contracts which were void could not be

rectified by the concerned authorities.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_40, Content: Learned lower appellate court also held, that on the principle

of estoppel, a void transaction could not be held to be valid. The learned

court also took note of the fact that, Secretary of the Board was

subsequently dismissed and case under thePrevention of Corruption Act,

was registered against him.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_41, Content: The learned lower appellate court             held that defendants/

appellants, also could not take benefit ofsection 196of the Indian Contract

Act to claim rectification of the acts of the Secretary.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_42, Content: Learned lower appellate court placed reliance onsection 227,

of the Indian Contract Act to hold, that acts of the agent which are within

his authority are only binding on the principal and not other.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_43, Content: Reliance was placed onSection 228of the Indian Contract Act

to hold, that if illegal part of transaction cannot be separated, then the wholeRSA No.2578 of 2002                                                    14transaction is not binding on the principal.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_44, Content: The learned lower appellate court, therefore, held that as per the

rent note, the defendant/appellants, could not alter or change the nature of

property, nor affect the repairs without the permission of the Board. The

learned Court, therefore, held that the lease was rightly terminated, by

issuing notice underSection 106of the Transfer of Property Act.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_45, Content: Learned lower appellate court did not accept the contention

raised by the defendants-appellants, that in view of the stand taken by the

plaintiff board in civil suit No.316 of 1982, decided on 8.12.1982, the letter

Ex.DW 2/A was to be held to be legal for the reasons that the validity of

letter Ex.DW2/A was not decided in the suit.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_46, Content: The learned lower appellate court thereafter, proceeded to hold

that besides the shops allowed to be constructed, defendants/appellants had

also raised construction behind the shops and also on the first floor without

any permission from the Board. The learned lower appellate court referred

to Clause 15 of the rent deed Ex.D1 dated 17.1.1982, which reads as under:-
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_47, Content: The learned lower appellate court, held that additional

construction raised i.e. five rooms and a store at the back of the shop, was in

violation of the terms of lease.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_48, Content: 
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_49, Content: Learned lower appellate court relied on      the provisions ofSection 111of the Transfer of Property Act to hold, that the lease of

property stood determined by the efflux of time allowed therein, as the

period of 11 months had expired and the tenancy came to an end, and

therefore, the accepting of rent could extend the lease only on month to

month basis.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_50, Content: The learned lower appellate court held, that on the breach of

the terms of the lease agreement, the lease stood terminated as also by

service of notice.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_51, Content: Learned lower appellate court reversed the findings of the

learned trial court, holding that with permission to raise construction, a

perpetual lease was created by holding this finding not to be based on facts

and circumstances of the case. Findings of the learned trial court on Issues

No.2, 3 and 4 and Issue No.4A, were reversed for the reasons stated above.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_52, Content: The learned lower appellate court held, that as the construction

was not raised with the permission of the Punjab Wakf Board, therefore, the

Board was entitled to possession of plot, as leased out after removal of

Malba.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_53, Content: Appeal was accordingly accepted and the suit for possession

was decreed by directing the respondeats No.1 and 2 to remove the malba

and superstructures over the disputed property, and hand over vacant

possession to the plaintiff.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_54, Content: Defendants No.3 to 9 were also restrained from paying the rent

to defendants/appellants.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_55, Content: 
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_56, Content: Mr. M.L. Sarin, learned Senior counsel appearing on behalf of

the appellants contended, that in this appeal,            following substantial

questions of law arise for consideration of this court.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_57, Content: 1.    WhetherSection 56of the Punjab Wakf Act, 1995 could

                   have retrospective effect to determine the lease executed

                   in 1978?
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_58, Content: 2.    Whether there was any violation of provisions by the

                   Secretary of the Board in granting sanction for

                   construction or in the alternative whether the acts of the

                   Secretary stood rectified by necessary implication as the

                   defendants were allowed to continue in his possession on

                   payment of enhanced rent?
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_59, Content: 3.    Whether the suit could be decreed for possession by

                   removal of malba against the relief claimed.?
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_60, Content: 4.    Whether the lease deed could be terminated with 15 days

                   notice in violation of provisions ofsection 106of the

                   Transfer of Property Act?
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_61, Content: In support of the substantial questions of law, learned senior

counsel for the appellants vehemently contended, that the learned lower

appellate court wrongly applied the provisions ofSection 56of the 1995

Act, though it could not have retrospective operation, and could not affect

the lease executed in the year 1978, as disabling provisions in an Act can

apply prospectively and not retrospectively.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_62, Content: 
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_63, Content: It was also the contention of the learned senior counsel, that

learned lower appellate court wrongly held the lease to be in violation of the

1995 Act as the lease deed was not for a period of three years, but was only

for 11 months, therefore, there was no violation of any provisions of the

Act, as lease for 22 months is permissible.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_64, Content: It was also seriously contended by the learned senior counsel

for the appellants, that finding of the learned lower appellate court, that the

lease deed executed by the Secretary of the Board, vide which permission

was granted for raising construction was not void as it was proved that by

way of necessary implication Board had consented to it, as would be clear

from the facts that (i) the defendants/appellants were allowed to remain in

possession of the premises after the expiry of lease period on payment of

rent; (ii) the consent of the Board was also proved from the fact that in the

previous litigation, a specific stand was taken by the Board, admitting the

tenancy of the defendants/appellants, and (iii) that the permission was

granted by the Board to raise construction.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_65, Content: There is force in the contentions raised by        learned senior

counsel for the appellants.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_66, Content: The first and second substantial questions of law raised, are

therefore, answered in favour of the appellants/defendants and it is held,

that provisions ofSection 56of the Punjab Wakf Act, 1995, were not

applicable to the lease executed in favour of the defendants/appellants nor

it was governed bySection 56of the Act, but by the terms of the lease deed

asSection 36of the 1954 Act was not enforced.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_67, Content: 
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_68, Content: It is also held, that the lease deed in favour of the

defendants/appellants was not void, as after the execution of the lease deed

the defendants/appellants were allowed to raise construction and the Board

accepted the rent at the revised rate till 1985 i.e. after expiry of lease period.

There was thus, implied consent of the Board to the lease executed by the

secretary to the Board, the action of the secretary stood ratified.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_69, Content: The plea of the defendants/appellants that the lease was to be

treated as perpetual lease, as held by the learned trial court, cannot be

accepted for the reason, that while granting permission for the construction,

it was made clear that the lease was for a period of 11 months. Furthermore,

that the defendants/appellants would not claim any damages, for the

construction and were to hand over vacant possession of the plot on the

termination of the lease, thus in view of agreed terms in the lease, it cannot

be said that lease was perpetual. This position was not disputed by the

learned counsel for the appellants.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_70, Content: Learned senior counsel thereafter contended, that though the

lease was for a period of 11 months only, however, as the

defendants/appellants continued in possession of the property after the

expiry of lease, it was a case of holding over underSection 116of the

Transfer of Property Act, therefore,        could not be evicted except by

following the process of law. The contention of the learned senior counsel

was, that the tenant holding over after expiry of the original lease, is to be

governed by the terms of the lease, embodied in the original contract,

though it may be treated to be a monthly tenancy.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_71, Content: 
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_72, Content: In support of this contention reliance was placed on the

judgment of this court in the case ofDayal Chand Vs. The Union of India

& Ors.1970 RCR (Rent) 205, wherein this court was pleased to lay down

as under:-
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_73, Content: It is, therefore, clear that after the expiry of the period fixed in

         the original leases, the original contract of tenancy came to an

         end and a new contract of tenancy came into being. Of course,

         by implication, the terms of lease embodied in the original

         contract would be deemed to be the terms of lease in the new

         contract. It has been held by two learned Judges of the Calcutta

         High Court inLachminarain Bhareodan v Hoara Miller & Co

         I.L.R.1914 (41) Calcutta 35, and Bahadur Mull Chaudhuri v.

         Nagar Mull Madan Gopal, I L R. 1941 (1) Calcutta 451, that an

         arbitration clause in an old contract does not ipso facto become

         an arbitration clause in the new contract. Therefore, on the

         parity of reasoning it must be held that the arbitration clause,

         that is, clause 13 in the lease deed, does not become ipso facto a

         clause of the new contract of lease undersection 116of the

         Transfer of Property Act."
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_74, Content: The contention of the learned senior counsel for the appellantsRSA No.2578 of 2002                                                  21was that in view of the law referred to above, the terms of the lease by way

of holding over is to be read as under:-
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_75, Content: 4.     That I will not sublet the premises or transfer my tenancy

            rights to any one else and also will not create any partnership

            with anybody else without the permission of the Board with

            regard to the shops in question.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_76, Content: 5.     That I will not use the premises for any purpose which is

            Un-Islamic.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_77, Content: 6.     That I have taken the above plot for permanent

            construction for eleven months and that I will not change its

            purpose and whenever I vacate it, I shall deliver its possessionRSA No.2578 of 2002                                                 22to the Punjab Wakf Board, through one month notice to the

         secretary.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_78, Content: 7.    That I will allow the officials of the Wakf Board to enter

         into the premises at all convenient times from the purposes of

         inspection and measurements.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_79, Content: 8.    That I undertake to keep the property in good condition.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_80, Content: 9.    That all the taxes which are payable by the Punjab Wakf

         Board in respect of this property/plot will be payable to the

         authorities concerned by me.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_81, Content: 10. That I will be responsible for the re-action and

         repercussions that may arise as a result of leasing, and the Wakf

         Board will not be liable to incur expenditure on this accounts.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_82, Content: 11.   In any case of any new laws, rules or directions which

         may in future be made by the Provincial or Central Government

         or under any emergency it may become necessary for the

         Punjab Wakf Board to get back this plot. It will be open to the

         Punjab Wakf Board to rescind the contract even before the

         expiry of the lease period and I will deliver its possession to the

         Punjab Wakf Board, after removing the said construction made

         thereon or handing over the same to the Punjab Wakf Board in

         the    same     condition      and    will    not    claim      any

         damages/compensation from the Wakf Board.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_83, Content: 12.    That I alone will be responsible for any action of the

         Government, Municipal Corporation, Semi-Government, Town-RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                   23Planning Department or Courts order which it may take against

            for the unplanned constructions of the shops made by me or for

            its use for inhygenic.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_84, Content: 13.   In the event of the Rent is not paid within one month

            from the due date if fails due or any of the above provisions of

            this Rent Deed is infringed the Rent Deed shall stand

            determined and the Punjab Wakf Board in addition to or in the

            alternative to any other remedy that may be available to it at its

            discretion will have the right to resume the land provided one

            months notice shall be give by the Wakf Board to me.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_85, Content: 14.   That I will not alter or change the nature of the property

            and I will not effect any alterations.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_86, Content: 15.   That I will not raise any construction on the back of the

            said shops without the prior permission of the Punjab Wakf

            Board and also will not give the said vacant/open site behind

            the said shops to any one else.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_87, Content: In witness whereof I have executed this Rent Deed this

            day of January, 1980."
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_88, Content: By referring to the terms, learned senior counsel for the

appellants contended, that the lease deed could only be terminated if any

new law, rules or directions were enforced for getting back the plot, and not

otherwise. The contention was, that there was no breach of terms of the

lease, which could entitle the Board to cancel the lease deed.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_89, Content: The main contention was, that the notice issued was not inRSA No.2578 of 2002                                                    24consonance with the terms of the lease deed and therefore, could not be said

to be a valid notice as the notice stipulated was of one month, whereas

admittedly notice of 15 days was given.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_90, Content: Section 106of the Transfer of Property Act reads as under:-
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_91, Content: It was also the contention of the learned senior counsel for the

appellants that the suit filed by the plaintiff was for possession of the

property and therefore, decree for possession by removal of malba could not

be granted.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_92, Content: In view of the contentions referred to above, it was prayed, that

the substantial questions of law Nos.3 and 4, be also decided in favour of

the defendants/appellants and against the plaintiff Board.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_93, Content: Mr.S.K.Pipat, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the

respondent/Board, controverted the contentions raised by the learned senior

counsel for the appellants by contending, that the lease of the

defendants/appellants was validly terminated, for violating the terms of the

lease    as, besides the construction of 7 shops and stair, the

defendants/appellants also raised further construction at the back and on the

first floor, without permission of the Board, as held by the learned lower

appellate court.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_94, Content: Learned senior counsel for the respondent also contended, that

though in the lease deed it was stipulated, that the lease could be terminated

with notice of one month, still it was not open to the defendants/appellantsRSA No.2578 of 2002                                                   26to question the validity of notice as no such plea was raised in the written

statement.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_95, Content: It was the contention of the learned senior counsel for the

respondent Board , that notice undersection 106of the Transfer of Property

Act was issued to the defendant/appellants on 4.12.1989. Reply to which

was sent on 14.12.1989. Suit was filed only on 17.5.1990 i.e. after expiry

of 30 days, to which written statement was filed on 2.4.1994. It was,

therefore, not open to the defendants/appellants to challenge the validity of

notice in view ofSection 106 (3)of the Transfer of Property Act.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_96, Content: Learned senior counsel for the respondent/Board contended,

that the Law Commission while recommending the amendment ofSection

106of the Transfer of Property Act had proposed that the amendment would

apply to the pending cases also. The appeal being the continuation of the

suit would, therefore, be covered by the amended provisions ofSection 106of the Transfer of Property Act.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_97, Content: In support of the contention, that objection regarding invalidity

and infirmity of notice undersection 106of the Transfer of Property Act,

was required to be raised specifically, at the earliest and in absence thereof

it would be deemed to have been waived.In support, reliance was placed

on the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case ofParwati Bai Vs.

Radhika2003 (1) RCR (Rent) 607.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_98, Content: Learned senior counsel for the respondent also raised a

contention, that in the absence of plea, that the tenant was occupying the

premises as a tenant holding over, no notice undersection 106of theRSA No.2578 of 2002                                                  27Transfer of Property Actwas necessary.     Learned counsel for the

respondent referred to the written statement where no such contention was

raised, rather the stand taken was, that it was a perpetual lease. This stand

was admitted to be not sustainable, even by the learned senior counsel

appearing on behalf of the defendants/appellants.In support of the

contention reliance was placed on the judgment of Hon'ble Andhra Pradesh

High Court in the case ofA.G.Chandrasekhar Vs. Smt.Ramagiri

Mahalaxmi2004 (1) RCR (Rent) 236.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_99, Content: Learned senior counsel for the plaintiff/respondent also placed

reliance on the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case ofJaswant

Raj Soni Vs. Prakash Mal2005 (8) SCC 38, in support of the contention,

that where under the agreement it was provided that one month's notice was

necessary to quit, and the notice fell short of one month, but the eviction

petition is filed on expiry of one month it would meet the requirement of

notice.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_100, Content: Reliance was also placed on the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme

Court in the case of M/sNopany Investments (P) Ltd. Vs. Santokh Singh

(HUF) 2008 (1) RCR (Rent) 6, wherein it was held, that if suit for

eviction is filed under general law no notice to quit was necessary undersection 106of the Transfer of Property Act as filing of the eviction suit

under general law, itself was a notice to quit.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_101, Content: In view of the submissionreferred to above, learned counsel for

the plaintiff/respondent, contended, that substantial questions of law No.3

and 4 be decided against the defendants/appellants and in favour of theRSA No.2578 of 2002                                                     28plaintiff/respondent.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_102, Content: On consideration of matter, I find force in the contention raised

by the learned senior counsel for the respondent/Board.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_103, Content: It is well settled law, that it is always open to the courts to grant

lesser relief than claimed, in the facts and circumstances of the case. The

decree of the learned lower appellate court, cannot be said to be bad merely

because in a suit for possession along with superstructure, the learned

lower appellate court had decreed the suit for possession by directing the

defendants/appellants to hand over possession of the plot leased out, after

removing the malba which belonged to the defendants/appellants.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_104, Content: Notice of termination of the lease, also cannot be said to be bad

in law as by raising additional construction over and above 7 shops and stair

qua which permission was given, the defendants-appellants violated the

specific terms of the lease deed. Furthermore, as per the amended law, the

defendants/appellants could not be allowed to continue even though the

amended law was not retrospective in operation, but by way of specific

term, the defendants/appellants had agreed to abide by any change in law.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_105, Content: In view of the judgments, relied upon by the learned senior

counsel for the plaintiff/respondent, the notice cannot be said to be invalid

so as to hold that the lease deed continued to subsist. The owner under the

general law is competent to seek eviction of the lessee by issuing notice of

termination of the lease which, in fact, has been done in the case in hand.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_106, Content: Substantial question of law Nos.3 and 4 are, answered in

favour   of the plaintiff/respondent and against the defendants/appellants.RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                29
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_107, Content: In view of the findingsreferred to above, judgment and decree

passed by the learned lower appellate court is upheld though for different

reasons as given above, and the regular second appeal is dismissed, but

with no order as to costs.
Tag: p, Class: , ID: p_108, Content: (Vinod K.Sharma)
28.05.2010                                         Judge
rp
Tag: div, Class: , ID: tophdr, Content: Share LinkMobile ViewFree featuresPremium featuresCase removal
Tag: div, Class: topindex, ID: , Content: Free featuresPremium featuresCase removal
Tag: div, Class: searchbox_top, ID: , Content: Free featuresPremium featuresCase removal
Tag: div, Class: hdrtop, ID: , Content: 
Tag: div, Class: docoptions, ID: , Content: Warning on translationGet this document in PDFPrint it on a file/printerDownload Court Copy
Tag: div, Class: , ID: google_translate_element, Content: 
Tag: div, Class: , ID: structuralanal, Content: 
Tag: div, Class: , ID: citetextdash, Content: 
Tag: div, Class: covers, ID: , Content: [Cites24, Cited by668]
Tag: div, Class: right_doc_nav, ID: , Content: Top AI Tagsduration-of-certain-leases-in-absence-of-written-contracteffect-of-holding-overUser Queriessection 106 of transfer of property actperpetual leasesection 106 transfer of propertytransfer of property actsuit for possessionwhat is  substantial question of lawtenant holding overwakf propertypunjab wakf boardindian contract actRCR(Rent)transfer of propertywakf actmonth to month leasesub leasethe wakf act 1995tenancy rightwakf boardcontract actarbitration clause
Tag: div, Class: category, ID: toc, Content: 
Tag: div, Class: category, ID: , Content: Top AI Tagsduration-of-certain-leases-in-absence-of-written-contracteffect-of-holding-over
Tag: div, Class: category_title, ID: , Content: Top AI Tags
Tag: div, Class: item_toselect, ID: , Content: duration-of-certain-leases-in-absence-of-written-contract
Tag: div, Class: item_toselect, ID: , Content: effect-of-holding-over
Tag: div, Class: category, ID: , Content: User Queriessection 106 of transfer of property actperpetual leasesection 106 transfer of propertytransfer of property actsuit for possessionwhat is  substantial question of lawtenant holding overwakf propertypunjab wakf boardindian contract actRCR(Rent)transfer of propertywakf actmonth to month leasesub leasethe wakf act 1995tenancy rightwakf boardcontract actarbitration clause
Tag: div, Class: category_title, ID: , Content: User Queries
Tag: div, Class: item_toselect, ID: , Content: section 106 of transfer of property act
Tag: div, Class: item_toselect, ID: , Content: perpetual lease
Tag: div, Class: item_toselect, ID: , Content: section 106 transfer of property
Tag: div, Class: item_toselect, ID: , Content: transfer of property act
Tag: div, Class: item_toselect, ID: , Content: suit for possession
Tag: div, Class: item_toselect, ID: , Content: what is  substantial question of law
Tag: div, Class: item_toselect, ID: , Content: tenant holding over
Tag: div, Class: item_toselect, ID: , Content: wakf property
Tag: div, Class: item_toselect, ID: , Content: punjab wakf board
Tag: div, Class: item_toselect, ID: , Content: indian contract act
Tag: div, Class: item_toselect, ID: , Content: RCR(Rent)
Tag: div, Class: item_toselect, ID: , Content: transfer of property
Tag: div, Class: item_toselect, ID: , Content: wakf act
Tag: div, Class: item_toselect, ID: , Content: month to month lease
Tag: div, Class: item_toselect, ID: , Content: sub lease
Tag: div, Class: item_toselect, ID: , Content: the wakf act 1995
Tag: div, Class: item_toselect, ID: , Content: tenancy right
Tag: div, Class: item_toselect, ID: , Content: wakf board
Tag: div, Class: item_toselect, ID: , Content: contract act
Tag: div, Class: item_toselect, ID: , Content: arbitration clause
Tag: div, Class: judgments, ID: , Content: Take notes as you read a judgment using ourVirtual Legal Assistantand get email alerts whenever a new judgment matches your query (Query Alert Service). Try out ourPremium Member Services--Sign up todayand get free trial for one month.Punjab-Haryana High CourtM/S Ram Murti & Sons & Anr vs Punjab Wakf Board & Ors on 28 May, 2010RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                 1



      IN THE HIGH COURT OF PUNJAB AND HARYANA AT
                     CHANDIGARH



                             RSA No.2578 of 2002
                             Date of Decision: 28.05.2010



M/s Ram Murti & Sons & Anr.                          ..Appellants

                      Vs.

Punjab Wakf Board & Ors.                             ..Respondents




CORAM: HON'BLE MR.JUSTICE VINOD K.SHARMA



Present:   Mr.M.L.Sarin Sr.Advocate, Advocate,
           with Mr.Nitin Sarin, Advocate,
           for the appellants.

           Mr.S.K.Pipat Sr., Advocate,
           with Mr.Manoj Kumar,Advocate,
           for respondents No.1.

           Mr.K.S.Dadwal, Advocate,
           for respondnet No. 3.

                ---

      1.   Whether Reporters of Local Newspapers may
           be allowed to see the judgment?

      2.   To be referred to the Reporters or not?

      3.   Whether the judgment should be reported in
           Digest?


                       ---
 RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                 2



Vinod K.Sharma,J.This is defendants' regular second appeal against the judgment

and decree dated 16.4.2002 passed by the learned lower appellate court,

vide which the suit for possession filed by the plaintiff/respondent stands

decreed.The plaintiff Wakf Board filed a suit for possession on the

pleadings that the plaintiff was a body corporate and Mohammed Sadiqui

being Estate Officer/Principal Officer and being duly authorized to file and

verify the pleadings, was competent to file the present suit.The Wakf Board claimed to be owner in possession of the suit

property shown in the site plan, as also of superstructure constructed over

the suit property. Father of defendant No.2, Ram Murti son of Amin Chand

was a licensee in possession of the suit land measuring 450 square yards.

After the expiry of licence, defendant No.2 applied for lease of plot in the

name of M/s Ram Murti & Sons. The application was accepted and he was

given the property on lease w.e.f. 1.1.1978 at the rate of Rs.100/- (Rupees

one hundred only) per month Lessee constructed seven shops, and sublet the

major portion in unauthorized manner, to defendants No.3 to 9 without

permission from the Board. It was claimed that the defendants violated the

terms of the lease which resulted in termination of the lease.It was also the case set up by the plaintiff/respondent that

defendants No.1 and 2 were liable to vacate the premises, and hand over the

possession as they had no right to sublet. It was pleaded          that the

defendant/appellants have damaged the property whereby the value andRSA No.2578 of 2002                                                    3utility of the leased property, has been diminished. It was also the case of

the plaintiff/respondent, that the claim of the appellant/defendants, that they

were lessee in terms of the lease dated 5.1.1980, was not sustainable, as the

lease deed was the outcome of fraud and foul play. The Board denied

having executed any lease deed in favour of defendants No.1 and 2.The

lease deed was said to be illegal and not binding on the plaintiff. The relief

claimed was for possession with a consequential relief of permanent

injunction, restraining defendants No. 3 to 9 from paying rent to defendants

No.1 and 2.Suit was contested by defendants No.1 and 2, wherein stand

was taken, that the suit was not filed by a competent person as Mohmmad

Sadiqui was not authorized to file or verify the pleadings. The ownership of

wakf board was admitted. It was the stand of the defendant/appellants, that

the construction was raised by the defendants, on the property leased out by

the Board, which was given on lease at the rate of Rs.200/- (Rupees two

hundred only) with a permission to raise construction. It was also the case

of the defendants that after raising construction, defendants No.1 and 2

sublet the shops constructed     by them. It was further      the case of the

defendants, that after permitting the defendants to raise construction, the

rent was increased from Rs.100/- (Rupees one hundred only) to Rs.200/-

(Rupees two hundred only), which was paid by the defendants till 1985.

The stand of the defendants was, that no permission was required to lease

out the shop constructed by the defendant/appellants, as at the time of

allowing the construction, permission to sublet was granted. Lease deedRSA No.2578 of 2002                                                  4dated 5.1.1980 was claimed to be genuine document, sanctity of which

stood decided in the earlier proceedings. The officials of the Board had

deposed admitting lease, to have been issued by the Board, and the Board

was receiving the rent, under the said lease.Defendants No.3 to 9 were said to be tenants under defendants

No.1 and 2. Other material averments were also denied.Defendant No.4, filed a separate written statement admitting

the ownership of the plaintiff. Stand of defendant No.4 was that defendants

No.1 and 2 by misrepresenting their right to sublet, leased out the property

to him, though they had no such right. Defendant No.4 claimed to be the

tenant under the plaintiff Board and not under defendants No.1 and 2. Other

averments made in the plaint were denied.Defendants No.3, 5 to 9 were proceeded ex parte.In the replication, averments made in the written statement

were denied and those made in the plaint were reiterated.On the pleadings of the parties, learned trial court framed the

following issues:-1.       Whether the present suit has been filed through

                     competent person? OPP2.       Whether the defendants have committed breach of the

                     terms of the lease? OPP3.       Whether the defendants are liable to be evicted from the

                     premises on the grounds mentioned in the plaint? OPP4.       Whether the lease of the defendants has been terminatedRSA No.2578 of 2002                                                    5by the competent authority? If yes, its effect? OPP

            4-A    Whether the plaintiff is estopped from filing the present

                   suit as defendants No.1 and 2 were permitted to raise

                   construction over the suit property? OPD5.     Relief.In support of the case, the respondent Board examined Shakil

Ahmad as PW 1, Mohammad Iqbal Yunus as PW 2, Mohmmad Sadiqui as

PW 2/A and thereafter closed its evidence.The defendants/appellants, on the other hand, examined Rattan

Lal Ahmamad as DW 1, Ram Murti appeared as DW 2 and examined Anup

Abrol as DW 3. By way of documentary evidence, defendant/appellants

tendered judgment in the consolidated suits, titled as Anup Abrol Vs. Ram

Murti decided by Shri Mohinder Singh, Civil Judge (Senior Division) as

Ex.DX, & Ex.DY and the decree sheet as Ex.DZ.Learned trial court took issues No.1, 2, 3 and 4 together, and

on appreciation of evidence, decided issue No.1 in favour of the plaintiff.Issues No.2, 3 and 4 were decided against the plaintiff and in

favour of defendants No.1 and 2.On issue No.4-A, learned trial court held that it was proved,

that the plaintiff board, had allowed construction to be raised, and thereafter

received advance rent, therefore, held, that the Board, was estopped from

filing the present suit against defendants No.1 and 2.Learned trial court decided issues No.2, 3 and 4 referred toRSA No.2578 of 2002                                                    6above for the reasons against the plaintiff by recording a finding that

Mohammad Iqbal Yunus while appearing as PW 2 proved, resolution and

notification showing that the Board was superseded. The Administrator

appointed was authorized as per the statute to direct the secretary to pursue

the suit. The learned trial court held that resolution proved, showed that the

Secretary of the Board was duly authorized to institute the suit.The learned trial court also held that notification Ex.PW 2/A

proved that the Estate Officer on being authorized by the Administrator was

competent to maintain the suit. The learned trial court held, that the suit was

filed by the competent person. The learned trial court also by referring toSection 64 (2)of the Punjab Wakf Act. 1954 read withSection 15(2)(1)to

hold that all powers of the Board vested in the Administrator.Learned trial court, however, did not accept the contention of

the plaintiff Board raised against the letter dated 15.1.1980, for the reason

that PW 2 in cross examination admitted that the Board had been receiving

rent from defendants No.1 and 2, at the rate of Rs.200/- (Rupees two

hundred only), which was settled vide letter dated 15.1.1980.The learned trial court further held that vide letter Ex.DW 2/A

and lease deed Ex.D.1, defendants No.1 and 2 were given permission to

raise construction. Factum of raising construction over the suit property,

stood decided by the civil court in the judgment exhibited as DW 2/D. The

appeal against the said judgment and decree was also dismissed vide

judgment Ex.DW 2/2. Learned trial court, therefore, held that the lease deed

Ex.D.1 dated 17.1.1980, coupled with receipt Exs.D/2 to Ex.D/7 made itRSA No.2578 of 2002                                                   7clear that the Board, had accorded implied consent for raising construction.

The Board had been receiving the rent up till 1.4.1985. The learned trial

court further held that thereafter remittence of Rs.9600/- (Rupees nine

thousand and six hundred only) by way of bank draft was also proved.Learned trial court did not accept the contention of the learned

counsel for plaintiff Board, that as per provisions ofSection 36(2)(f)lease

for more than 3 years could not be executed nor did the court accept the plea

that the lease was outcome of fraud, for the reason, that the Board had been

accepting the enhanced rent from the defendant/appellants.The learned trial court held, that though under the provisions

of the Act,    lease for more than 3 years was not permissible, still the

evidence showed that the Board itself had impliedly given consent for

raising construction and had continuously received rent at the rate of

Rs.200/- (Rupees two hundred only). The learned court accepted the

version, that the construction was raised with the permission of the Board.

Learned trial court in view of the finding proceeded to hold that lease in

favour of defendant No.1, was to be taken as perpetual lease as the

defendants/appellants were allowed to raise construction.To support this finding, reliance was placed on the judgment

of Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the case of Chevalier I.I.Iyyappan and

Anr. Vs. The Dharmodayam Co. Trichur AIR 1966 SC 1017; judgment of

Patna High Court in the case ofDeep Chand Sao Vs. Smt. Kasturi Devi

and Ors.AIR 1975 Patna 17.RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                     8The learned trial court also did not accept the contention of the

learned counsel for the plaintiff/respondent, that the letter Ex.D.1 and

Ex.DW 2/A were not issued by the competent person, in view of the

conduct of the plaintiff Board, in accepting the enhanced rent for the last 10

years as mentioned in these letters.The stand of the defendant No.4, was not accepted for the

reason, that because of his claim, that he was lessee under the Board,

already stood adjudicated and the lease without handing over possession to

defendants No.1 & 2 in his favour by the Board was only a paper

transaction.The Board being dissatisfied, preferred an appeal against the

judgment and decree, passed by the learned trial court.The learned lower appellate court reversed the findings by

recording, that after coming into force ofPunjab Wakf Act, 1995, the lease

by the Board was to be governed bySection 56of the Act, which imposes

restriction on the Board to grant lease of wakf property, which reads as

under:-"(1) A lease or sub-lease for any period exceeding three years

               of any immovable property which is Wakf property shall,

               notwithstanding anything contained in the deed or instrument of

               wakf or in any other law for the time being in force, be void and

               of no effect.(2)    A lease or sub-lease for a period exceeding one year and

               not exceeding three years of any immovable property which isRSA No.2578 of 2002                                                 9wakf property shall, notwithstanding anything contained in the

            deed or instrument of wakf or in any other law for the time

            being in force, be void and of no effect unless it is made with

            the pervious sanction of the Board.(3)   The Board shall, in granting sanction for lease or sub-lease or renewal thereof under this section review the terms and

            conditions on which the lease or sub-lease is proposed to be

            granted or renewed and make its approval subject to the

            revision of such terms and conditions in such manner as it may

            direct."Learned lower appellate court, held that the lease or sub-lease

for any period exceeding three years of any immovable property of the wakf

was void, and could not result in creating perpetual lease. Learned lower

appellate court by referring tosection 56of the 1995 Act, considered the

facts of the case, and held that the property was under the tenancy of Amin

Chand, as per lease deed Ex.PW2/B. The property was thereafter leased out

to Ram Murti for a period of 11 months vide rent note Ex.PW2/F. The

important terms of the lease were as under:"3.   That we will not sub-let the premises or transfer its

            tenancy rights to anyone else and will not create any joint

            partnership with anybody else in the said plot without prior

            permission of the Punjab Wakf Board.7.    That I undertake to keep the plot in good condition.RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                1012.   In the event of the rent is not paid within one month from

          the due date if falls due or any of the above provisions of this

          rent deed is infringed the rent deed shall be terminated and the

          Punjab Wakf Board in addition to or in the alternative to any

          other remedy that may be available to it at its discretion will

          have the right to resume the plot provided one month's notice

          shall be given by the Wakf Board to me.13.   That I will not alter or change the nature of the

          property and I will not effect any repairs etc. without the prior

          permission of the Board."Thereafter, vide letter dated 5.1.1980, Ex.DW2/A, defendants

No.1 and 2 were allowed to raise construction. Letter DW2/A reads as

under:-"Subject:          Proposal of construction of seven shops

          permission to sublet them by Sh. Ram Murti and sons of wakf

          land attached to masjid Kumharan, Jullundur held by him as an

          allottee on a monthly rent of Rs.100/-.Sh. Ram Murti is the allottee of one kanal of land on rent

          of Rs. 100/- p.m. He wants to construct seven shops on the

          premises under his tenancy as per site plan submitted by and to

          sublet these shops to sub-tenants. The approval of proposal is

          given on the following terms:RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                  111.     That he will construct seven shops and stair-case at his

                   own cost out of money to be advanced by him for this

                   purpose on behalf of the Board not to be claimed from

                   the Punjab Wakf Board at any time.2.     That the new shops shall be property of the Board and he

                   will not claim ownership over it.3.     That he will be entitled to sublet the shops.4.     That he will enhance rent from Rs.100/- per month to

                   Rs.two hundred per month.A deed of agreement will be got executed and a Rent deed be

            sent to H.O. Ambala Cantt.Sd/ Secretary

                                            Punjab Wakf Board, Ambala"After issuance of the letter by the Secretary, a lease deed was

executed, wherein the defendants/appellants agreed, that they will construct

seven shops and staircase, at their own expenses and will not claim any

damages from the Punjab Wakf Board, at the time of vacating the premises.

The important terms of the lease deed read as under:-"13. In the event of the rent is not paid within one month from

            the due date if falls due or any of the above provisions of this

            Rent Deed is infringed the Rent Deed shall stand determined

            and the Punjab Wakf Board in addition to or in the alternative

            to any other remedy that may be available to it at its discretionRSA No.2578 of 2002                                                  12will have the right to resume the land provided one month

            notice shall be given by the Wakf Board to me.14.    That I will not alter or change the nature of the property

            and I will not effect any alternations.15.    That I will not raise any construction on the back of the

            said shops without the prior permission of the Punjab Wakf

            Board and also will not give the said vacant/open site behind

            the said shops to any one else."Learned lower appellate court, thereafter, considered the

legality of the letter Ex.DW2/A dated 5.1.1980, issued by the Secretary of

the Board and held, that as per the resolution, the secretary could sanction

the lease of vacant plot for a period of not exceeding three years up to a

monthly lease of Rs. 50/- (Rupees fifty only) only. Learned lower appellate

court also held, that as per resolution Ex.PW2/A, the Secretary did not have

any power to allow the raising of construction over the Wakf property or to

enhance the rent, nor any such authority was available under the Act. The

learned lower appellate court, therefore, held that the act/lease being in

violation of provisions of the statute, was not legal, thus could not advance

the case of the defendants/appellants.Learned lower appellate court applied the principle, that there

can be no estoppel against statute, and that no allotment letter was issued

by the Wakf Board to validate this action.The learned lower appellate court proceeded to hold, thatRSA No.2578 of 2002                                                      13subsequent action of the board in accepting the rent could not legalise an

illegal action.In support of this contention reliance was placed on the

judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case ofNew Indian Insurance

Company Simla Vs. Kamla& Ors. JT2001 (4) SC 235.Reliance was also placed on the judgment of Hon'ble Patna

High Court in the case ofSudhanshu Kanta Vs. Manindra Nath AIR1965

Patna144.By placing reliance on thejudgmentsreferred to above, learned

lower appellate court held, that the contracts which were void could not be

rectified by the concerned authorities.Learned lower appellate court also held, that on the principle

of estoppel, a void transaction could not be held to be valid. The learned

court also took note of the fact that, Secretary of the Board was

subsequently dismissed and case under thePrevention of Corruption Act,

was registered against him.The learned lower appellate court             held that defendants/

appellants, also could not take benefit ofsection 196of the Indian Contract

Act to claim rectification of the acts of the Secretary.Learned lower appellate court placed reliance onsection 227,

of the Indian Contract Act to hold, that acts of the agent which are within

his authority are only binding on the principal and not other.Reliance was placed onSection 228of the Indian Contract Act

to hold, that if illegal part of transaction cannot be separated, then the wholeRSA No.2578 of 2002                                                    14transaction is not binding on the principal.The learned lower appellate court, therefore, held that as per the

rent note, the defendant/appellants, could not alter or change the nature of

property, nor affect the repairs without the permission of the Board. The

learned Court, therefore, held that the lease was rightly terminated, by

issuing notice underSection 106of the Transfer of Property Act.Learned lower appellate court did not accept the contention

raised by the defendants-appellants, that in view of the stand taken by the

plaintiff board in civil suit No.316 of 1982, decided on 8.12.1982, the letter

Ex.DW 2/A was to be held to be legal for the reasons that the validity of

letter Ex.DW2/A was not decided in the suit.The learned lower appellate court thereafter, proceeded to hold

that besides the shops allowed to be constructed, defendants/appellants had

also raised construction behind the shops and also on the first floor without

any permission from the Board. The learned lower appellate court referred

to Clause 15 of the rent deed Ex.D1 dated 17.1.1982, which reads as under:-"That I will not raise any construction on the back of the said

             shops without the prior permission of the Punjab Wakf Board

             and also will not give the said vacant/open site behind the said

             shops to any one else."The learned lower appellate court, held that additional

construction raised i.e. five rooms and a store at the back of the shop, was in

violation of the terms of lease.RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                  15Learned lower appellate court relied on      the provisions ofSection 111of the Transfer of Property Act to hold, that the lease of

property stood determined by the efflux of time allowed therein, as the

period of 11 months had expired and the tenancy came to an end, and

therefore, the accepting of rent could extend the lease only on month to

month basis.The learned lower appellate court held, that on the breach of

the terms of the lease agreement, the lease stood terminated as also by

service of notice.Learned lower appellate court reversed the findings of the

learned trial court, holding that with permission to raise construction, a

perpetual lease was created by holding this finding not to be based on facts

and circumstances of the case. Findings of the learned trial court on Issues

No.2, 3 and 4 and Issue No.4A, were reversed for the reasons stated above.The learned lower appellate court held, that as the construction

was not raised with the permission of the Punjab Wakf Board, therefore, the

Board was entitled to possession of plot, as leased out after removal of

Malba.Appeal was accordingly accepted and the suit for possession

was decreed by directing the respondeats No.1 and 2 to remove the malba

and superstructures over the disputed property, and hand over vacant

possession to the plaintiff.Defendants No.3 to 9 were also restrained from paying the rent

to defendants/appellants.RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                    16Mr. M.L. Sarin, learned Senior counsel appearing on behalf of

the appellants contended, that in this appeal,            following substantial

questions of law arise for consideration of this court.1.    WhetherSection 56of the Punjab Wakf Act, 1995 could

                   have retrospective effect to determine the lease executed

                   in 1978?2.    Whether there was any violation of provisions by the

                   Secretary of the Board in granting sanction for

                   construction or in the alternative whether the acts of the

                   Secretary stood rectified by necessary implication as the

                   defendants were allowed to continue in his possession on

                   payment of enhanced rent?3.    Whether the suit could be decreed for possession by

                   removal of malba against the relief claimed.?4.    Whether the lease deed could be terminated with 15 days

                   notice in violation of provisions ofsection 106of the

                   Transfer of Property Act?In support of the substantial questions of law, learned senior

counsel for the appellants vehemently contended, that the learned lower

appellate court wrongly applied the provisions ofSection 56of the 1995

Act, though it could not have retrospective operation, and could not affect

the lease executed in the year 1978, as disabling provisions in an Act can

apply prospectively and not retrospectively.RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                    17It was also the contention of the learned senior counsel, that

learned lower appellate court wrongly held the lease to be in violation of the

1995 Act as the lease deed was not for a period of three years, but was only

for 11 months, therefore, there was no violation of any provisions of the

Act, as lease for 22 months is permissible.It was also seriously contended by the learned senior counsel

for the appellants, that finding of the learned lower appellate court, that the

lease deed executed by the Secretary of the Board, vide which permission

was granted for raising construction was not void as it was proved that by

way of necessary implication Board had consented to it, as would be clear

from the facts that (i) the defendants/appellants were allowed to remain in

possession of the premises after the expiry of lease period on payment of

rent; (ii) the consent of the Board was also proved from the fact that in the

previous litigation, a specific stand was taken by the Board, admitting the

tenancy of the defendants/appellants, and (iii) that the permission was

granted by the Board to raise construction.There is force in the contentions raised by        learned senior

counsel for the appellants.The first and second substantial questions of law raised, are

therefore, answered in favour of the appellants/defendants and it is held,

that provisions ofSection 56of the Punjab Wakf Act, 1995, were not

applicable to the lease executed in favour of the defendants/appellants nor

it was governed bySection 56of the Act, but by the terms of the lease deed

asSection 36of the 1954 Act was not enforced.RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                      18It is also held, that the lease deed in favour of the

defendants/appellants was not void, as after the execution of the lease deed

the defendants/appellants were allowed to raise construction and the Board

accepted the rent at the revised rate till 1985 i.e. after expiry of lease period.

There was thus, implied consent of the Board to the lease executed by the

secretary to the Board, the action of the secretary stood ratified.The plea of the defendants/appellants that the lease was to be

treated as perpetual lease, as held by the learned trial court, cannot be

accepted for the reason, that while granting permission for the construction,

it was made clear that the lease was for a period of 11 months. Furthermore,

that the defendants/appellants would not claim any damages, for the

construction and were to hand over vacant possession of the plot on the

termination of the lease, thus in view of agreed terms in the lease, it cannot

be said that lease was perpetual. This position was not disputed by the

learned counsel for the appellants.Learned senior counsel thereafter contended, that though the

lease was for a period of 11 months only, however, as the

defendants/appellants continued in possession of the property after the

expiry of lease, it was a case of holding over underSection 116of the

Transfer of Property Act, therefore,        could not be evicted except by

following the process of law. The contention of the learned senior counsel

was, that the tenant holding over after expiry of the original lease, is to be

governed by the terms of the lease, embodied in the original contract,

though it may be treated to be a monthly tenancy.RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                  19In support of this contention reliance was placed on the

judgment of this court in the case ofDayal Chand Vs. The Union of India

& Ors.1970 RCR (Rent) 205, wherein this court was pleased to lay down

as under:-"4.   In our opinion, the decision of the trial Court as well as

             of the learned District Judge must stay-on a very short ground

             which will now be stated. It is common ground that the tenants

             did hold over. What is the effect of a tenant holding over, is

             now beyond the pale of controversy in view of the decision of

             the Fedral Court in Kai Khushroo Bezonjee Capadia Vs. Bai

             Jerbai Horjibhey Warden and another AIR (36) 1949 Fedral

             Court 124, Mukherjea,J. (as he then was)     who spoke for the

             majority of the Court, while dealing with the position of a

             tenant holding over, observed as follows:"This argument, though plausible at first sight, does not

                   appear to me to be sound. It is perfectly right that the

                   tenancy which is created by the 'holding over' of a lessee

                   or under-lessee is new tenancy in law even though many

                   of the terms of the old lease might be continued in it, by

                   implication; and it cannot be disputed that to bring new

                   tenancy into existence, there must be a bilateral act.

                   What S 116 T P. Act contemplates is that on one side

                   there should be an offer of taking a renewed or fresh

                   demised evidenced by the lessee's or sub-lessee'sRSA No.2578 of 2002                                                 20continuing in occupation of the property after his interest

               has ceased and on the other side there must be a definite

               assent to this continuance of possession by the landlord

               expressed by acceptance of rent or otherwise. It can

               scarcely be disputed that the assent of the landlord which

               is founded on acceptance of rent must be acceptance of

               rent as such and in clear recognition of the tenancy right

               asserted by the person who pays it."It is, therefore, clear that after the expiry of the period fixed in

         the original leases, the original contract of tenancy came to an

         end and a new contract of tenancy came into being. Of course,

         by implication, the terms of lease embodied in the original

         contract would be deemed to be the terms of lease in the new

         contract. It has been held by two learned Judges of the Calcutta

         High Court inLachminarain Bhareodan v Hoara Miller & Co

         I.L.R.1914 (41) Calcutta 35, and Bahadur Mull Chaudhuri v.

         Nagar Mull Madan Gopal, I L R. 1941 (1) Calcutta 451, that an

         arbitration clause in an old contract does not ipso facto become

         an arbitration clause in the new contract. Therefore, on the

         parity of reasoning it must be held that the arbitration clause,

         that is, clause 13 in the lease deed, does not become ipso facto a

         clause of the new contract of lease undersection 116of the

         Transfer of Property Act."The contention of the learned senior counsel for the appellantsRSA No.2578 of 2002                                                  21was that in view of the law referred to above, the terms of the lease by way

of holding over is to be read as under:-"1.    That I will construct the shops from my own expenses

            and I will not claim any damages from the Wakf Board at the

            time of vacating the said premises.2.      That I will give the said shops on rent to other persons

            and the said tenants will be only my own tenants and they will

            not claim any tenancy rights from the Wakf Board.3.     That I shall pay Rs.200/- (Rupees Two hundred only) per

            month as rent from 1.10.1979 to the Punjab Wakf Board in

            advance in the first week of each month.4..    That a sum of Rs.400/- has accrued as arrears of rent

            which I undertake to pay to the Punjab Wakf Board, as under: -(a) Rs. on execution of the rent deed and there-after monthly

            instalment of Rs.200/- each along with the rent.4.     That I will not sublet the premises or transfer my tenancy

            rights to any one else and also will not create any partnership

            with anybody else without the permission of the Board with

            regard to the shops in question.5.     That I will not use the premises for any purpose which is

            Un-Islamic.6.     That I have taken the above plot for permanent

            construction for eleven months and that I will not change its

            purpose and whenever I vacate it, I shall deliver its possessionRSA No.2578 of 2002                                                 22to the Punjab Wakf Board, through one month notice to the

         secretary.7.    That I will allow the officials of the Wakf Board to enter

         into the premises at all convenient times from the purposes of

         inspection and measurements.8.    That I undertake to keep the property in good condition.9.    That all the taxes which are payable by the Punjab Wakf

         Board in respect of this property/plot will be payable to the

         authorities concerned by me.10. That I will be responsible for the re-action and

         repercussions that may arise as a result of leasing, and the Wakf

         Board will not be liable to incur expenditure on this accounts.11.   In any case of any new laws, rules or directions which

         may in future be made by the Provincial or Central Government

         or under any emergency it may become necessary for the

         Punjab Wakf Board to get back this plot. It will be open to the

         Punjab Wakf Board to rescind the contract even before the

         expiry of the lease period and I will deliver its possession to the

         Punjab Wakf Board, after removing the said construction made

         thereon or handing over the same to the Punjab Wakf Board in

         the    same     condition      and    will    not    claim      any

         damages/compensation from the Wakf Board.12.    That I alone will be responsible for any action of the

         Government, Municipal Corporation, Semi-Government, Town-RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                   23Planning Department or Courts order which it may take against

            for the unplanned constructions of the shops made by me or for

            its use for inhygenic.13.   In the event of the Rent is not paid within one month

            from the due date if fails due or any of the above provisions of

            this Rent Deed is infringed the Rent Deed shall stand

            determined and the Punjab Wakf Board in addition to or in the

            alternative to any other remedy that may be available to it at its

            discretion will have the right to resume the land provided one

            months notice shall be give by the Wakf Board to me.14.   That I will not alter or change the nature of the property

            and I will not effect any alterations.15.   That I will not raise any construction on the back of the

            said shops without the prior permission of the Punjab Wakf

            Board and also will not give the said vacant/open site behind

            the said shops to any one else.In witness whereof I have executed this Rent Deed this

            day of January, 1980."By referring to the terms, learned senior counsel for the

appellants contended, that the lease deed could only be terminated if any

new law, rules or directions were enforced for getting back the plot, and not

otherwise. The contention was, that there was no breach of terms of the

lease, which could entitle the Board to cancel the lease deed.The main contention was, that the notice issued was not inRSA No.2578 of 2002                                                    24consonance with the terms of the lease deed and therefore, could not be said

to be a valid notice as the notice stipulated was of one month, whereas

admittedly notice of 15 days was given.Section 106of the Transfer of Property Act reads as under:-"106.Duration of certain leases in absence of written

            contract or local usage.--(1)   In the absence of a contract or local law or usage to the

            contrary, a lease of immovable property for agricultural or

            manufacturing purposes shall be deemed to be a lease from year

            to year, terminable, on the part of either lessor or lessee, by six

            months' notice;and a lease of immovable property for any other

            purposes shall be deemed to be a lease from month to month,

            terminable, on the part of either lessor or lessee, by fifteen days'

            notice.(2)   Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for

            the time being in force, the period mentioned in sub-section (1)

            shall commence from the date of receipt of notice.

            (3)   A notice under sub-section (1) shall not be deemed to be

            invalid merely because the period mentioned therein falls short

            of the period specified under that sub-section, where a suit or

            proceeding is filed after the expiry of the period mentioned in

            that sub-section.(4)   Every notice under sub-section (1) must be in writing

            singed by or on behalf of the person giving it, and either be sentRSA No.2578 of 2002                                                      25by post to the party who is intended to be bound by it or be

              tendered or delivered personally to such party, or to one of his

              family or servants at his residence, or (if such tender or delivery

              is not practicable) affixed to a conspicuous part of the

              property."It was also the contention of the learned senior counsel for the

appellants that the suit filed by the plaintiff was for possession of the

property and therefore, decree for possession by removal of malba could not

be granted.In view of the contentions referred to above, it was prayed, that

the substantial questions of law Nos.3 and 4, be also decided in favour of

the defendants/appellants and against the plaintiff Board.Mr.S.K.Pipat, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the

respondent/Board, controverted the contentions raised by the learned senior

counsel for the appellants by contending, that the lease of the

defendants/appellants was validly terminated, for violating the terms of the

lease    as, besides the construction of 7 shops and stair, the

defendants/appellants also raised further construction at the back and on the

first floor, without permission of the Board, as held by the learned lower

appellate court.Learned senior counsel for the respondent also contended, that

though in the lease deed it was stipulated, that the lease could be terminated

with notice of one month, still it was not open to the defendants/appellantsRSA No.2578 of 2002                                                   26to question the validity of notice as no such plea was raised in the written

statement.It was the contention of the learned senior counsel for the

respondent Board , that notice undersection 106of the Transfer of Property

Act was issued to the defendant/appellants on 4.12.1989. Reply to which

was sent on 14.12.1989. Suit was filed only on 17.5.1990 i.e. after expiry

of 30 days, to which written statement was filed on 2.4.1994. It was,

therefore, not open to the defendants/appellants to challenge the validity of

notice in view ofSection 106 (3)of the Transfer of Property Act.Learned senior counsel for the respondent/Board contended,

that the Law Commission while recommending the amendment ofSection

106of the Transfer of Property Act had proposed that the amendment would

apply to the pending cases also. The appeal being the continuation of the

suit would, therefore, be covered by the amended provisions ofSection 106of the Transfer of Property Act.In support of the contention, that objection regarding invalidity

and infirmity of notice undersection 106of the Transfer of Property Act,

was required to be raised specifically, at the earliest and in absence thereof

it would be deemed to have been waived.In support, reliance was placed

on the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case ofParwati Bai Vs.

Radhika2003 (1) RCR (Rent) 607.Learned senior counsel for the respondent also raised a

contention, that in the absence of plea, that the tenant was occupying the

premises as a tenant holding over, no notice undersection 106of theRSA No.2578 of 2002                                                  27Transfer of Property Actwas necessary.     Learned counsel for the

respondent referred to the written statement where no such contention was

raised, rather the stand taken was, that it was a perpetual lease. This stand

was admitted to be not sustainable, even by the learned senior counsel

appearing on behalf of the defendants/appellants.In support of the

contention reliance was placed on the judgment of Hon'ble Andhra Pradesh

High Court in the case ofA.G.Chandrasekhar Vs. Smt.Ramagiri

Mahalaxmi2004 (1) RCR (Rent) 236.Learned senior counsel for the plaintiff/respondent also placed

reliance on the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case ofJaswant

Raj Soni Vs. Prakash Mal2005 (8) SCC 38, in support of the contention,

that where under the agreement it was provided that one month's notice was

necessary to quit, and the notice fell short of one month, but the eviction

petition is filed on expiry of one month it would meet the requirement of

notice.Reliance was also placed on the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme

Court in the case of M/sNopany Investments (P) Ltd. Vs. Santokh Singh

(HUF) 2008 (1) RCR (Rent) 6, wherein it was held, that if suit for

eviction is filed under general law no notice to quit was necessary undersection 106of the Transfer of Property Act as filing of the eviction suit

under general law, itself was a notice to quit.In view of the submissionreferred to above, learned counsel for

the plaintiff/respondent, contended, that substantial questions of law No.3

and 4 be decided against the defendants/appellants and in favour of theRSA No.2578 of 2002                                                     28plaintiff/respondent.On consideration of matter, I find force in the contention raised

by the learned senior counsel for the respondent/Board.It is well settled law, that it is always open to the courts to grant

lesser relief than claimed, in the facts and circumstances of the case. The

decree of the learned lower appellate court, cannot be said to be bad merely

because in a suit for possession along with superstructure, the learned

lower appellate court had decreed the suit for possession by directing the

defendants/appellants to hand over possession of the plot leased out, after

removing the malba which belonged to the defendants/appellants.Notice of termination of the lease, also cannot be said to be bad

in law as by raising additional construction over and above 7 shops and stair

qua which permission was given, the defendants-appellants violated the

specific terms of the lease deed. Furthermore, as per the amended law, the

defendants/appellants could not be allowed to continue even though the

amended law was not retrospective in operation, but by way of specific

term, the defendants/appellants had agreed to abide by any change in law.In view of the judgments, relied upon by the learned senior

counsel for the plaintiff/respondent, the notice cannot be said to be invalid

so as to hold that the lease deed continued to subsist. The owner under the

general law is competent to seek eviction of the lessee by issuing notice of

termination of the lease which, in fact, has been done in the case in hand.Substantial question of law Nos.3 and 4 are, answered in

favour   of the plaintiff/respondent and against the defendants/appellants.RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                29In view of the findingsreferred to above, judgment and decree

passed by the learned lower appellate court is upheld though for different

reasons as given above, and the regular second appeal is dismissed, but

with no order as to costs.(Vinod K.Sharma)
28.05.2010                                         Judge
rp
Tag: div, Class: ad_doc, ID: , Content: Take notes as you read a judgment using ourVirtual Legal Assistantand get email alerts whenever a new judgment matches your query (Query Alert Service). Try out ourPremium Member Services--Sign up todayand get free trial for one month.
Tag: span, Class: citetop, ID: , Content: [Cites24, Cited by668]
Tag: span, Class: hidden_text, ID: span_1, Content: RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                    3
Tag: span, Class: hidden_text, ID: span_2, Content: RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                  4
Tag: span, Class: hidden_text, ID: span_3, Content: RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                    5
Tag: span, Class: hidden_text, ID: span_4, Content: RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                    6
Tag: span, Class: hidden_text, ID: span_5, Content: RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                   7
Tag: span, Class: citetext, ID: span_6, Content: To support this finding, reliance was placed on the judgment

of Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the case of Chevalier I.I.Iyyappan and

Anr. Vs. The Dharmodayam Co. Trichur AIR 1966 SC 1017; judgment of

Patna High Court in the case ofDeep Chand Sao Vs. Smt. Kasturi Devi

and Ors.AIR 1975 Patna 17.
Tag: span, Class: hidden_text, ID: span_7, Content: RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                     8
Tag: span, Class: hidden_text, ID: span_8, Content: RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                 9
Tag: span, Class: hidden_text, ID: span_9, Content: RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                10
Tag: span, Class: hidden_text, ID: span_10, Content: RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                  11
Tag: span, Class: hidden_text, ID: span_11, Content: RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                  12
Tag: span, Class: hidden_text, ID: span_12, Content: RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                      13
Tag: span, Class: citetext, ID: span_13, Content: In support of this contention reliance was placed on the

judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case ofNew Indian Insurance

Company Simla Vs. Kamla& Ors. JT2001 (4) SC 235.
Tag: span, Class: citetext, ID: span_14, Content: Reliance was also placed on the judgment of Hon'ble Patna

High Court in the case ofSudhanshu Kanta Vs. Manindra Nath AIR1965

Patna144.
Tag: span, Class: citetext, ID: span_15, Content: By placing reliance on thejudgmentsreferred to above, learned

lower appellate court held, that the contracts which were void could not be

rectified by the concerned authorities.
Tag: span, Class: hidden_text, ID: span_16, Content: RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                    14
Tag: span, Class: hidden_text, ID: span_17, Content: RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                  15
Tag: span, Class: hidden_text, ID: span_18, Content: RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                    16
Tag: span, Class: hidden_text, ID: span_19, Content: RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                    17
Tag: span, Class: hidden_text, ID: span_20, Content: RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                      18
Tag: span, Class: hidden_text, ID: span_21, Content: RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                  19
Tag: span, Class: citetext, ID: span_22, Content: In support of this contention reliance was placed on the

judgment of this court in the case ofDayal Chand Vs. The Union of India

& Ors.1970 RCR (Rent) 205, wherein this court was pleased to lay down

as under:-
Tag: span, Class: hidden_text, ID: span_23, Content: RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                 20
Tag: span, Class: citetext, ID: span_24, Content: It is, therefore, clear that after the expiry of the period fixed in

         the original leases, the original contract of tenancy came to an

         end and a new contract of tenancy came into being. Of course,

         by implication, the terms of lease embodied in the original

         contract would be deemed to be the terms of lease in the new

         contract. It has been held by two learned Judges of the Calcutta

         High Court inLachminarain Bhareodan v Hoara Miller & Co

         I.L.R.1914 (41) Calcutta 35, and Bahadur Mull Chaudhuri v.

         Nagar Mull Madan Gopal, I L R. 1941 (1) Calcutta 451, that an

         arbitration clause in an old contract does not ipso facto become

         an arbitration clause in the new contract. Therefore, on the

         parity of reasoning it must be held that the arbitration clause,

         that is, clause 13 in the lease deed, does not become ipso facto a

         clause of the new contract of lease undersection 116of the

         Transfer of Property Act."
Tag: span, Class: hidden_text, ID: span_25, Content: RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                  21
Tag: span, Class: hidden_text, ID: span_26, Content: RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                 22
Tag: span, Class: hidden_text, ID: span_27, Content: RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                   23
Tag: span, Class: hidden_text, ID: span_28, Content: RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                    24
Tag: span, Class: hidden_text, ID: span_29, Content: RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                      25
Tag: span, Class: hidden_text, ID: span_30, Content: RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                   26
Tag: span, Class: citetext, ID: span_31, Content: In support, reliance was placed

on the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case ofParwati Bai Vs.

Radhika2003 (1) RCR (Rent) 607.
Tag: span, Class: hidden_text, ID: span_32, Content: RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                  27
Tag: span, Class: citetext, ID: span_33, Content: In support of the

contention reliance was placed on the judgment of Hon'ble Andhra Pradesh

High Court in the case ofA.G.Chandrasekhar Vs. Smt.Ramagiri

Mahalaxmi2004 (1) RCR (Rent) 236.
Tag: span, Class: citetext, ID: span_34, Content: Learned senior counsel for the plaintiff/respondent also placed

reliance on the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case ofJaswant

Raj Soni Vs. Prakash Mal2005 (8) SCC 38, in support of the contention,

that where under the agreement it was provided that one month's notice was

necessary to quit, and the notice fell short of one month, but the eviction

petition is filed on expiry of one month it would meet the requirement of

notice.
Tag: span, Class: citetext, ID: span_35, Content: Reliance was also placed on the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme

Court in the case of M/sNopany Investments (P) Ltd. Vs. Santokh Singh

(HUF) 2008 (1) RCR (Rent) 6, wherein it was held, that if suit for

eviction is filed under general law no notice to quit was necessary undersection 106of the Transfer of Property Act as filing of the eviction suit

under general law, itself was a notice to quit.
Tag: span, Class: citetext, ID: span_36, Content: In view of the submissionreferred to above, learned counsel for

the plaintiff/respondent, contended, that substantial questions of law No.3

and 4 be decided against the defendants/appellants and in favour of theRSA No.2578 of 2002                                                     28plaintiff/respondent.
Tag: span, Class: hidden_text, ID: span_37, Content: RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                     28
Tag: span, Class: hidden_text, ID: span_38, Content: RSA No.2578 of 2002                                                29
